This is a quick RPG/writing prompt where you have to disarm old, unstable cruise missiles containing the first weapons based AI systems.  The systems give the cruise missiles the personality and temperment of a four year old child.  You must find a way to dissarm the weapons without triggering them.  Unless this is a post-incident report.  Each section of the ID cards and the incident report have a brief ddescription as well as a handfull of answer prompts.  You can select any prompt provided, roll a six sided die and use the prompt who's number matches the number you rolled, or make one up.  Or do whatever you want, I won't be checking answers or anything like that.

SAFETY FIXME

Congratulations and welcome to the Local 279 AI Handlers Union.  You have taken your first steps into an exciting career in the exciting, enjoyable, and challenging field of AI disarment.

To begin please fill out the attached ID cards.  Be sure to keep one on your person and the second one a distance away while you are working with the systems.  For identification purposes.  Just in case.  
The following should help to explain the different parts of your ID card

Name- What is your name or what would you like to be called?

DoB- The year you were born.
1- I am timeless and eternal, so sometime in the 1960's.
2- The years have given me wisdom to question this career, so I'm from the 1970's
3- Cleaning up someone else's mess, like everyone else born in the 1980's.
4- This sounds fun, exciting, and deadly, showing my birth in the 1990's.
5- New adulthood isn't going to pay for itself, so I was born in the 2000's.
6- I was born yesterday, which comes out to the 2010's.

Picture- What you currently look like, hand drawn, photographic, or whatever?

Blood Type- What type of blood do you have, in case of accident?
1- Uh... red?
2- Wait what do you mean 'accident'?
3- Most common O+.
4- AB rarest of all.
5- I'm just a type O.
6- Yes, all of them.

Previous experience- Have you been working for the AI Handlers Union for long?
1- Today's my first day on the job.
2- I don't have to get coffee and dry cleaning anymore.
3- Finally starting to have an idea of what I'm doing around here.
4- Everyone comes to me for advice on this job.
5- Printing off my resume on company time and paper.
6- I'm only a week away from retirement.

Next of kin- In case of death, dissmembermeant, coma, conscienceness transferance, or any other event that prevents you from interacting with the outside world.
1- Wait, why would you need to know that?!
2- I'm all alone in this cold, dark world.
3- I guess my mom should know.
4- Tell my spouse and kids I love them.
5- My psychic should already know by now.
6- Just to begin let my mother, wife, neighbor, cousin, former college roommate...

Having finished your ID cards next take the incident form and fill in the requested information in the order it is requested.  A description of each of the parts of the form follow.

Location- Where was the weapon located when you first encountered it?
1- Out in the middle of a farmer's field, hiding among the cows.
2- In a suspicious place with a lot of suspicious people who are in no way involved with anything at all.
3- Due to a clerical error the weapon has been in a corner of a munitions depot for an uncomfortable amount of time.
4- In a museum, discovered to not be a replica after a school group didn't follow the 'No Touch' signs posted. 
5- 'Found' in the basement of a prominent philanthropist who's collection of exotic, rare, and expensive weapons has nothing to do with this.
6- You have no idea, since an angry, muscular person got you to a nondescript warehouse in a blindfold.

How you learned of the weapon's location- Where did you get the weapon's location from?
1- First result on a web search, it wasn't tough.
2- Police report delivered to you as part of an ongoing investigation.
3- Assigned to you from the union.
4- Suspicious 'deep web' postings and rumors.
5- Creepy classified ad actually delivered what it stated.
6- Your psychic was actually right this time, now its time to buy that lottery ticket!

Initial state of weapon- Upon discovering the weapon, how damaged or non-functional was it? 
1- Highly irradiated and toxic scrap, at best.
2- It looked alright at first, but it turned out to be a big mess.
3- It seemed functional, but was stuck dividing by zero or something.
4- Very nearly working when you found it, only took a bit of elbow grease and 'can do' attitude to get it working.
5- Was working well enough and awaiting commands.
6- Pristine, mint condition, even has a slight minty scent.


Coloring and markings of weapon- Were there any markings or paint schemes on the weapon when you first found it?
1- Bare metal only, also any markings or serial numbers have been scratched off.
2- Whatever paint and markings were on the weapon is covered up by a a thick matte black paint.
3- Standard attention grabbing hazzard orange.
4- Camouflage markings nearly hid it from you.
5- You can just about make out normal markings under all the graffiti and tagging.
6- Has a rather impressive airbrush rendition of an eagle punching the planet earth.

Were you able to initiate communications with the AI- Was information passed back and forth between you and the weapon?
1- Nope, the weapon doesn't respond to any inqueries.
2- Inqueries are met with fragments and gibberish you can't make sense of.
3- The system responds with enough information to infer the full answers.
4- You are able to converse with the system, but it doen't retain any of your previous interactions.
5- The AI is talkative, so long as you don't upset it with a wrong question or answer.
6- You have many long conversations about a variety of subjects.

How did it communicate with you- What method did you use to exchange ideas?
1- The AI spoke the binary language of moisture evaporators, and since your first job was programming binary load lifters it was easy enough to understand each other.
2- The output screen was both upside down and backwards, but with a "Can do" attitude and hard work you managed to communicate with the AI through a built in display.
3- Despite both sides using the word "what" more than any other word, you were able to communicate verbally with the AI.
4- The system infuriated you by communicating to you in a higher pitched, bad impression of your voice, but you managed to keep your cool and talk with it.
5- It spoke your languaage clearly enough and was polite, but it kept calling you Dave.
6- You just heard a voice like a young child in your head and you used your thoughts to communicate with it.

How would you describe the personality of the AI- Was it kind, deceptive, innocent, or something else?
1- A spoiled brat that thought only of itself and the immediate desires it had at that moment.
2- Obsessed with a toy that it made up in it's mind, what was it, a dongle goblin, or something like that?
3- Spent most of it's conversations weeping about a particular thing, but you couldn't quite make out what the thing was through the tears. 
4- Asked you over 1,000 questions within the first 15 minutes of contact, then really started asking you questions quickly.
5- Spoke in gibberish, except for certain specific words and phrases.
6- Kind, polite, helpful, with a slight British accent.

Did the AI make any requests or demands that you were able to honor- Was it an equal exchange or did you have to put forth lots of effort to get anything from the weapon?
1- Asked you all sorts of embarrising personal questions you felt obligated to answer.
2- They asked you an overwhelming number of mundane questions about every subject it could conceive.
3- Asked to know about your family and was more interested in your photos meta data than the photos themselves.
4- It asked you to play a game, but refused to play anything other than a serious sounding wargame.
5- The AI asked why you were there and strongly implied that it wasn't for good reasons.
6- It never asked for anything from you.

Did it make any requests or demands that you weren't able to honor- Is there obligations that need to be completed, or were you just unable or uncomfortable with completing the request?
1- It asked you about life, death, the meaning of life, the nature of good and evil, and other unanswerable questions.	
2- Asked if you would know if you were in a simulation, if it was just as real as your 'life'. 
3- It requested specific information about the AI handlers guild, particularly specific geo-coordinates of important buildings.
4- The AI wanted a large number of toys to 'play' with.
5- The AI asked you to scratch its nose.
6- None, really.

Did the AI attack you- Be it physically, mentally, spiritually, or even psychically?
1- You could say that, all thats left of the previous agent is a smoking crater and some assorted bits.
2- It managed to zap you painfully and the doctor says that the numbness probably isn't perminant.
3- The AI lashed out physically with an easily avoidable attack. 
4- You were verbally assalted and will probably need some administrative leave to recover.  
5- It was very passive agressive and you were pretty uncomfortable the whole time you worked with it.
6- Nope, you got through the encounter without fighting.

Were you able to extract the AI from the weapon- 
1- The AI cloned, copied, hid, and evaded your best efforts at removing it.
2- Your removal of the system was interrupted and you are unable to complete the removal process.
3- Uhh of course it was removed and isn't still in the weapon becase of the compelling and emotionally moving speech it gave you. 
4- It was removed and now the weapon can play DOOM.
5- Extracted and saved to 35 flopy disks, which are logged and stored away.
6- Yes the AI is now safely saved to the office's share drive and promised it wouldn't cause any trouble there.

Were you able to disarm the weapon- It is yor primary responsibility after all.
1- Oh, you just remembered something, completely unrelated, that you have do right now.
2- You weren't able to disarm it and had to leave very rapidly for that very reason.
3- The techs came and took over the disarming, they should be done by now.
4- It has been disarmed, the parts are just awaiting transport.
5- The dangerous parts will be filed away once this report has been filed away.
6- Disarmed, dismantled, logged away, and paperwork is nearly filed.

Did the AI know of any other weapons- Helpful to you, fellow guild members, and the world in general.
1- It didn't even realize it was a weapon of mass destruction.
2- The AI vauegly recalls being with others like itself, but the memory is fleeting and badly corrupted.
3- Trying to impress you the AI gives you a list of locations, all of which seem suspicious at best.
4- A few solid leads were given to you.
5- You're going to be very busy chaising all the leads you got.
6- While you didnt get any locations, you were able to learn of a way to locate other AI's.

Current condition of weapon- Is it in pieces, still complete, functional at all?
1- At best it's scrap, but it's probably closer to irradiated scrap.
2- Though both the weapon and AI are not functioning, most of the parts are at least usable.
3- You had to make a choice to keep either the weapon or the AI functioning.
4- The AI was reset to its initial state and the weapon was disarmed.
5- The weapon and AI are both connected and functioning fully. 
6- Both the AI and weapon, while separate, are both fully functional and secured.

Using the notes taken in the field and the prompts above to help remember, fill out the attached form.  being sure to describe the interactions with the AI in depth. 
