Ad Emag
V. 1.08
A post apocalyptic role playing game.
by erik oasen

Introduction

March 14
My psychiatrist told me that keeping a journal would help with the therapy, so here I am writing 
about all my little day to day problems. I burned dinner and Allen wasn’t too happy about it, but 
if he would help me with the kid instead of playing on his goddamn computer all the time, then it 
wouldn’t have happened.  I got a call from Timmy’s principal saying that he’s been skipping classes. 
I tried to talk to Allen about it, but he said something about nearly being level 73 or some such nonsense 
and continued to play his games. I swear that I married a child and not a man. If he played with me nearly 
as much as his fucking computer, then this marriage would be a million times better.

March 17
I went to the shrink again, and for the money that I pay him I would think that he would actually 
do something other than tell me to relax. Everyone tells me “just relax” or “calm down”, but when 
I ask them to do something or help me out they tell me the same tired old stories about being too 
busy. Story of my fucking life.  I wish that things would be like they were between me and Allen 
when we first got married.  But after he got his job, it seems that all he does is work, sleep, play, 
and shit.

April 3
I think that Allen finally got the hint. We sent Timmy over to my mother’s house for the
night and he took me out to a nice dinner. It was the first time in as long as I can remember that 
he didn’t use the computer for a whole day. He even did things that we hadn’t done since we had Timmy. 
Somehow I just feel that it is like trying to fix a burnt meal with too much salt.

April 5
Timmy was out of school today because he’s coming down with something. I want to call it the flu, 
but it’s the middle of spring. I’m really starting to worry about him though, so I’ll take him to 
the doctor in the morning. His temperature has been high all day and nothing that I do will cool him 
off. Even the crackpot remedies that Mom told me don’t seem to help him. At least he will be playing 
hooky for a good reason for once.

April 6
After four aggravating hours in the waiting room, I decided that the doctors can’t do anything for 
Timmy. It seems like everyone is getting the flu. It was even on the news tonight.

April 7
Timmy has taken a turn for the worse. He is burning up so much that he is delusional and speaking 
to hallucinations. What scares me is that Allen has now gotten whatever Timmy has.  Whatever it is, 
it’s very nasty. I guess that the house will be pretty full during the day. Just when I was getting 
used to having an empty house.  The news said that this new bug is pretty bad, but they won’t say 
anything else about it. I tried to call the hospital all day and the lines are all busy. I think that 
I’ll take the whole family to the doctor in the morning.

April 13
My son is dead. Even writing these words doesn’t take the numbness away. I have been crying all day 
without realizing it. I can’t believe it. I have read the first four words at the beginning of this 
and it still seems dreamlike. Allen hasn’t gotten out of the bed all day and I feel so alone.

September 18th, 10:49 PM
Something about this half used journal filled me with a desperate urge to buy it. It was retrieved 
from a sale of a family’s possessions. I guess that my morbid urges are back again. It will be perfect 
for recording the events of my day to day life.

September 19th, 9:13 PM
Profit margins are up for this fiscal quarter. To celebrate this news, I bought a new Fairlane ZX-11. 
It was worth every red cent I paid for it.  I took Lucy out again. She was also worth every penny that 
I spent on her.  Damson, the CFO, has put me in charge of overseas investments. I know that I can do a 
much better job than any of the other junior executives ever could. Now is the time for me to at last 
prove it.

September 24, 7:25 PM
After researching the various investments, I have decided that the best opportunity for our company 
to peruse is to invest very heavily in an up and coming company operating in Hong Kong and Madrid with 
a large presence here in the US by the name of Celestheal.  They had some kind of experimental vaccine 
that they were working on that was generating a great deal of interest. I’m not too sure on the particulars 
because they hid behind a lot of technical jargon. I presented the information to Damson and he gave me 
the go ahead to pour everything we’ve got into it.

October 1st, 12:01 PM
Today the market took a huge loss. This flu, which they’re starting to call, “The Plague” is really 
taking people out of action. This hit to our market was offset by a great rise in both the Asian and 
European markets. Looks like I jumped on the Asian band wagon at exactly the right moment. Celestheal 
is growing by leaps and bounds. I dumped all of my own personal resources I could into it before the 
prices rose too high. I’m going to make a killing thanks to this company. Life is good.

October 3rd, 11:37 PM
Lucy won’t return my calls. For how much I pay her for a single night’s work, you would think that 
she would at least answer the phone more often. Fuck it. I’ll call her again.

October 4th, 8:46 AM
After all the care that I take to keep myself as physically attractive is for naught. My skin is 
drying out and no creams that I try to sue are having any effect on my dry skin. I still can’t get 
a hold of Lucy.

October 4th, 9:33 AM
I finally figured out why Lucy isn’t answering the phone. After a substantial bribe I was told that 
she took a vaccine to help her fight off that flu plague that sweeping the nation. The vaccine that
Celestheal produced. It somehow made her stomach begin eating itself.  What scares me more than that 
is I invested everything I had into the company that produced the vaccine. But the thing that shakes 
me to the core, is that I also took that injection yesterday.

October 4th, 12:33 PM
I can’t ever leave my apartment again. Last I heard, the European market collapsed in on itself.  
The collapse was a direct result of that damn Plague arriving on of our damn planes. And now it’s 
ravaging the countryside. The US market is at record lows and there is no solution possible to fix 
the situation. Asia has sealed it’s borders and won’t allow any details out. I’ve been fired.  All 
my money was invested in a company that turned humans into terrible freaks. What’s the worst part 
of all…
I’m one of those terrible freaks.

October 5th, 3:01 AM
This is the last thing I’m ever going to write. I am now a horrid creature that isn’t human
anymore. My job and finances are all in the toilet. The closest thing to a person that I love died
a wretched screaming death because of a company’s product that I helped fund. I just hope that
the shotgun doesn’t leave much of my hideous face. So I guess the next thing for me to say
would be something cliché like, “Good bye cruel world.”

Thursday
Out of an entire buildin’, this was all that was worth takin’. I guess them damn scavs got all the
good stuff. I found this by a stiff. It seems that I see more stiffs than people. Most everyone
that is alive is pretty ugly nowadays. What with that damn syrum thing that messed us all up. It
made some pretty ugly folk that you run into wanderin’ around. Though I guess that I am not
much of a looker anyhow, after catchin that car bomb with my face and all.

Saturday
I was pickin’ at the scabs that make up what is left of my face, when I peeled this off. I think that
I am gonna to keep it here, just in case.

Monday
My head hurts. I had to beat a guy with a board and I ended up takin’ his shoes. They don’t fit
too good, but they’ll keep my feet from bleedin’ so damn much. It really pisses me off that I
have to leave town just because I’m ugly and missin’ most of my teeth. Damn the government
for declaring martial law and “seperating” those of us who got all sorts of messed up by that
Syrum. “For our own protection.” They’s the ones who need protectin’. Just because I had to
be all messed up by that horseshit vaccine to stay alive and that damn car bombd. It’s ain’t my
fault. Well at least I won’t be alone, looks like all of us freaks are getting kicked out of town by
those “holier than thou” government pricks. Fuck ‘em, we’ll build a better town anyway.

Friday
I found the most pretty woman today wanderin’ with the rest of us refugees. Her name is Tracy
and she’s got clear blue eyes. She understands how I feel like none else. I have to be kinda
careful though, if I hug her too tight, her skin tends to fall off in chunks. And after a while I
guess I can get over her smellin’ like something that curled up and died about a month ago with
almonds.

Sunday
Well we finally started that town that I was talkin’ about. We don’t need the government and
their damn martial law to rule our lives. We’ll be able to do it ourselves. Seeing how I used to
work on ‘em a while ago, I get to fix up the power plant. I’m thinkin’ bout takin Tracy out on a
walk soon. She is the prettiest darn thing I ever saw, even if most of her hair is fallin’ out.

Monday
Got the power up and runnin’ finally. Feels like it took forever, but anythin’ worth doin’ is worth
doin’ right. The pompous ass of a mayor came down and rambled on and on and on about how
important that I am to the town and bla bla bla. The guy never shuts up. I think that I’ll live up
here, seein how it’s nice and warm, and nobody ever comes out here, cept when there’s a
problem.

Saturday
Tracy came by, and one thing led to another and now she’s asleep upstairs. She sure is swell.
I’m thinking about marryin’ that woman.

Friday
Well Tracy and I are hitched. We are goin’ out on our honeymoon at the end of the week. I just
gotta teach someone how to keep the juice flowin’ through our grand ol’ town. Man I am so
excited.

Tuesday
Got back from my honeymoon. That damn lackey that I taught fucked up my system. Now I
gotta get things back the way I like ‘em. The mayor is callin’ a meetin’ tonight to complain
about somethin’ or another. That guy never stops bitchin’ and whinin’. The one thing that struck
me was what he said that there were rumors of an all out war breaking out in Europe. Somethin’
bout this bein’ as bad as that great war all those years ago. Seems nasty is all i know.

Sunday
Tracy’s got a bun in the oven! We’re gonna have us a little tike of our own! The Doc checked
both of us out and said something about passin’ on “geen itic ab normie ladys” or some-such
nonsense. Damn doctors always usin’ such big words. Why can’t he just speak English?

Saturday
It’s been a while since I wrote, but I’ve been workin’ on getting my hole ready for the tike and
keeping this town in juice. But I now have a son! His name is John Deck Morris. He’s got
Tracy’s eyes, and my strong jaw. The Doc says that we gotta keep a close eye on him, cus he got
some kinda infection and he smells kinda like almonds Just like my Tracy.

Friday
Went over to the town square and the family got a good ol’ picture taken. Here it is. Ain’t John
just the cutest kid you ever did see?

Wednesday
There were some funny rumors of a bunch o’ people attackin’ from far off. I just thought it was
ol’ Vinne Two Fingers gettin’ into the moonshine too heavily. Still i’m gonna take Tracy and
John to the mountians in a coupla days.

I can’t believe that I paid so much for a half used notebook, but I required it to keep track of my
day to day activities. First I shall introduce myself; my name is Sarah Unabridged Webster.
Aside from the periodical raids from the local marauders, very little excitement goes on around
here. This is thanks in no small part to the small squad of soldiers posted here that have kept the
others seperate from us.

Some of those other local children were watching me again. They have a look of disgust when
their eyes settle upon me. It is though I bear some unseen stigmata that the others can witness,
but I can’t see. They themselves are the ones who were disfigured by the injection. I can’t help
it if my immune system is stronger than theirs is. I am saddened that the people that I live with
view me with such hatred. I wish that those soldiers would only take me away from all this
squalor and back into one of the great shining cities.

There have been whispers of the others banding together and kicking the normal people out of
Wasserville. This is dreadful news. We’re just trying to help them in their terrible state. The
soldiers are getting nervous about the others. Speaking of soldiers, I had a chance to get to know
one of them better. His name is Stephen and he’s a Corporal. Oh is he georgeous in that uniform
of his. We must have talked for hours on end about everything.

There was a spat between the others and the soldiers today. The soldiers were trying to get an
estimate as to how may others we actually had, seeing how dozens come shuffling in every day.
The others didn’t want the soldiers to come into their precious slum for whatever reason.
Stephen was shot in the arm by one of the others. Of all the places he could have stayed to
recover, he chose my house! He’s sleeping peacefully in the other room right now.
Some of the local hoodlums have took it upon themselves to show me and Stephen just how
unwelcome we are in “their” town. My wounds will heal, but the emotional pain will linger for
quite some time. I can’t believe how they spit in our faces while we try our best to help them
with their condition.

My god. They’ve overthrown the government! All of the freaks that we were trying to help and
find a way to restore to normalcy overthrew our government! I don’t know what I am going to
do. Stephen says that we should try to get to the capital because if there is any government still
around, it would be there.

I can hear the people beating at my door. They must have finally had enough of us. I just
wanted to be with Stephen and be happy. But they just wouldn’t let us. They are coming down
the stairs, if only we had more time to leave. I don’t want to die like th-

3
I puld this from the fingers of thee first kil of the MIGHTY KARL 7.62 BALL. I keep this as a
log of the great konquests that I am sure to hav. On this day MY felow kilrs and I have kild over
31 people. Three wer MY victims. There wer few spoils to take, but the foods made it
worthwhil. Any victims kild of the enemy are worthwhile during this great invasion of the
foolish US. Teach them to call us dirty kiwi suckers.

7
I, the POWERFUL KARL 7.62 BALL hav kild the rats that snuck into MY tent this night. The
rats were once best mates of MINE who wished to overthrow ME in MY command of MY men.
I was unabl to get information from the vermin before they died. Only a fool would send three
tiny boys to kil the POWERFUL KARL 7.62 BALL.

10
I am happy to say that I found a family living along the road we were going on. I hadn’t kild
anyone in a month and I was geting bothered. KARL 7.62 BALL, the MAGNIFICENT
slaughtered the family of five before anyon knew what I was doing. The house contained
nothing worth keeping.

13
Our patrol cam upon an enemy patrol of the despicabl hick military. They ran and hid away from
us. It took MY valiant troops the better part of the day to destroy them. While interrogating
their cowardly leader I, the TERRIFYING KARL 7.62 BALL learned that the inferior hick
military here demonstrated their cowardice by unleashing their nuklear arms on our home land.
For this act of cowardac, we will ravage their landscap.

14
We have captured another soldier who has told us, after much interrogation, that the foolish
military have let loose chemical weapons on our Chinese allis. He told ME, the ALL
KNOWING KARL 7.62 BALL, that unheard of quantities of defoliants were dumped all over
our Red mates. Foolish military. The enemy is not made of plant, we are made of honor, valor,
and truth!

19
Tomorow the UNDEFEATABLE KARL 7.62 BALL and HIS INVINCIBLE army wil meet their
enemies, the capitalistic hick swine, on the field of battl. I know in MY heart we shal be
victorious.

This is a roll playing game. To play it you will need a few items. This book, paper, copies of the
included character sheets, some 10 sided dice (2 to 10 should be enough), an open mind, and an
imagination. You will also need at least two people. One person will serve as the Myth-Maker
who’s job is to run the entire world. Every person, the weather conditions, animals, shrubs, even
clouds of noxious gas is controlled by the myth-maker. Except for the player’s characters, who
are controlled by the rest of the players of Ad Emag.

World View
The world has been through quite a few dramatic changes, so here is something to bring you up
to date on what the world is like now.
The world in general
Earth isn’t the fertile garden that it used to be. Due to the plagues, warfare, and chemical
warfare unleashed on such an grand scale, most of the world is a desolate wasteland. The few
areas that aren’t corrupted are zealously protected by the people and creatures living there. On
the majority, the world is polluted by radioactive fallout, defoliants, chemicals of all varieties, or
the ashes of civilization.

Europe
Once considered the most beautiful and civilized continent, it has fallen far from it’s former
grace. With it’s numerous political and religious divisions Europe was host to the most internal
strife, civil wars, and rebel actions. Everyone turned their greedy sights upon their neighbors.
Skies were blacked out by the bombs that were loosed by a legion of planes. The earth moved
with the boot steps of a horde of soldiers moving to secure more lands. Countless ages of history
were rendered to dust by the fighting. One turn of luck spared the continent from the horrors of
nuclear weapons. Alas conventional weapons were used in unimaginable amounts to make up
for the lack of nuclear arms.
What few pockets of civilization that still exist are scattered and in ruin. Survivors are clinging
desperatly to the crumbling ruins of their formerly grand civilization. The georgeous
countryside is scarred deeply with bomb craters and rusted hulks of long abandoned war
machines. The great cities have all collapsed inward on themselves and offer the inhabitants little
more than a new and exciting way to die. Most people stick to the small suburbs that orbit the
great cities and scratch out an existance in the gloomy shadow of the ruined cities.
Government in Europe is at most isolated feudal kingdoms. Most degrade themselves into
nothing more than roving packs of marauders. Traveling from place to place, taking whatever
resources the area can provide for them and remaining only as long as the location can sustain
them. The marauders roam from place to place like starving locust, always taking and never
giving back. The few small feudal kingdoms survive in fortified structures and have the know
how and the supplies to repel, and in some rare cases obliterate, the regular marauder assualts.
There is no centralized power structure. Like the rest of the world Europe has fallen back on it’s
history to come up with the rule that works best. With absolutely no centeral rule, the monitary
system of Europe has reverted to the archaic barter system.

Africa
So a great and deadly plague once ravashed the world. It killed off untold billions of people.
While everyone was dying scientists and doctors scrambled to find anything that could stop or at
the very least slow the disease. The standard methods quickly proved helpless. In desperation
they turned to less ethical methods for combating the sickness. One particularly popular idea was
that the great and mysterous continent of Africa would hold the cure in one of it’s countless flora
or fauna.
So hundreds of expeditions were launched to probe the inner secretes of the great African
wilderness. countless scores of labs were quickly set up to carry out any experiments that the
scientists could concoct. When the pillaged wildlife offered no cure, the scientists used the newly
discovered cure-all, the syrum, to continue their mad experiments. They spliced, sliced, and
sundered any genetic code they could find and then threw it into a blender with the syrum to see
what would come out. The results varied from mildly interesting to the terrifying.
At first the experiments were contained or destroyed as necessary by the scientists and anyone
they could get to lend a hand. After a time the numbers of experiments skyrocketed. Naturally
escapes began happening with more and more frequency. Eventually the thick forests were alive
with a new kind of wildlife. This wildlife had the best possible aspects of the animal kingdom.
Unknown to those who created these creatures they spied from the shadows of the forest.
Patiently waiting and silently watching the creatures learned and grew. In due time they formed
tribes of their own and descended upon the scientific community in an all sweeping offensive.
That was the last thing heard about Africa. Most believe that it is run by primitive tribal societies
warring with one another in the deep wilds of Africa.

South America
Strangely enough of the continents hit by the plague, the one hit the hardest was in fact not the
origin of the plague itself. South America was overwhelmed by the plague within days of it
crossing the border. Unknown reasons caused the plague spread more rapidly then anywhere
else. The whole continent was infected before the first useful drug was created to combat it. The
result is an entire continent very nearly devoid of human life, in it's altered state or otherwise.
The few survivors survived because of their lucky immunities and have scratched out meager and
isolated existences all on their own. To find one person alive is extremely lucky. To find two is
rare. Finding a group of people alive in South America is impossible. That does not deter would
be adventure seekers from striking off into the vast jungles of South America.
As for the massive foot print that the previous inhabitants left on South America with the cities,
the jungle has done it's best to swallow it. The cities are choked with vines, trees, and unhindered
animals wandering about without a care. Suburbs have vanished in thick growth and the roads
were covered long ago.

Antarctica
The great frozen continent. Antartica is the only continent with no native population. Before
the plague countries around the world would send their researchers to the frozen waste to
discover the secretes encased below the thick ice. These meager populations were kept alive only
by the constant supply of foods and fuels sent from their home countries.
As the plague ravshed these home countries, the outposts began to have less and less significance.
Some researchers were recalled by thoughtful people before things got too bad. Eventually
nobody could be sparred to send anything out to such a remote and desolate land. The
communications recieved begged at first. They also threatened, pleaded, begged, and finally
cursed. Then the communications stopped all together.
Most assume that the frozen wastes swallowed up the few researchers and burried their puny
stations under a white blanket. These research stations, if found, could contain the very best pre
plague scientific supplies in very good condition. Though there is whispered rumors of small
groups scraping out a pittiful existance in the frozen wastes desperatly clinging to life. Loathing
the world that chose to forget them.

Australia
When the plague ravashed the lands, many nations saw fit to take advantage of their weakened
enemies. Other nations saw fit to find new enemies. Australia fell into the final category. During
one of the countless meetings of the horrors going on in the world, Australia was insulted. Now
people may have been sensitive before the plague, but not that sensitive. This insult must have
cut the Australians right to the core. After storming out of the meeting hall the Australian ran
home and told the nation of the unexcuseable insult. The whole nation was so enraged by it that
they all united behind the diplomat and began to make plans to go to war.
Thanks to it’s isolated location Australia was untouched by the plague. While it’s fighting force
may not have been the largest or best equipped before the plague, thanks to the plague they had
quickly become the largest standing army. But this army alone would not be enough. They
sought assistance from an unlikely ally. They found a friend in Asia and were backed with the
arms, armor, and money that they so needed.
In record time they were prepaired for war and launched their offensive against the wretched
Northern Americas. Things went very well with the attack at first. The whole continent was
taken by surprise and no retailation seemed possible thanks to the decimated populations. That
was not the case. It only takes one person to press a button. That is how Australia became an
irradiated wasteland. America dropped the bomb. Well not just one. The whole continent was
saturated with nuclear fire.
Australia is currently still heavily irradiated and no one has returned from explorations. Miles off
the shores the radiation is high enough to break most geiger counters. Anything that may have
survived the nuclear bombs would very quickly adapt to become a very strange and unknown
creature to this world. Even with all the other freaks roaming about.

Asia
Asia did their best to leap on a moment of weakness for what they thought was their greatest
enemy. With the plague ravishing the world, Asia noticed that the northern Americas were
sundered to their knees by the plague. Seeing a chance they would never have again, they fully
funded and backed the unplagued Australian fighting force to invade. As it became more and
more appearant that the Aussies wouldn’t be able to pull off the flawless victory that Asia desired,
they unleashed the nuclear stockpiles that were hidden away. For better or worse the estimates of
global destruction were overly ambitious. Most estimates put it at around 80% of the nuclear
weapons used failed or wildly missed and irradiated the seas. In one final attack the US retaliated
by dumping every defoilant possible into Asia.
The poisons spread quickly, carried far and wide by the lofty winds. The result was a desert
wasteland. With no plants to speak of the soil quickly degenerated into horrid sands that blasted
and buried everything. The few who have not fled the continent scratch out an existance in the
small oasis’ that tempt travelers, or the brave ones will force their way into one of the former
buildings and try to eek out an existance there. Praying every day that the shifting sands don’t
shift into their home and bury them alive.
The few wretched souls that do scratch out an existence in the sands of Asia do so in small bands
lead by a single person, usually the fool charismatic enough to lure people into Asia in the first
place. These caravans drool at the desire to salvage untold treasures from under the crushing
sands. Most simply dissapear into the sands. Any trading that goes on is usually done at
gunpoint, so any currency the stronger wishes to charge rules.

North America
North America got a little taste of every version of hell during the confusion. It got an invasion
from a former ally. Chemical weapons launched on it’s cities from home grown terrorists. It is
lucky enough to be one of the two manufacturing centers of the syrum production. As a final
insult North America was the proud parent of the deadly plague itself.
With it being the epicenter of the plague, North America didn’t suffer any more deaths in the
population than the rest of the world. It’s governments tried their best to keep on functioning as
though there wasn’t a world ending plague ravashing the lands. Then came the unexpected
attack from the former ally of Australia. This rattled the nation and spurred it to action. It
began with a total irradiation of Australia. Rounding up all the chemical weapons they could
they launched a retailation on the nations of Asia. In the process of mustering all the combat
able troops to invade Asia, the people of North America reeled at the brutality of the retaliations.
In a short time, the people enacted their power to overthrow the governments. The major
problem was that there wasn’t any alternative that everyone could agree on. So very quickly the
countries of North America descended into anarchy. Factions formed for protection and were
swallowed up by other factions. Dictators rose overnight and fell nearly as quickly. Even the
noble democracy has failed to reestablish a sensable sort of order in North America.
Thus the continent of North America lies as of today, in an unsettled balance of chaos. Thanks
to it’s varied landscape of unpleasantness, the game of Ad Emag takes place there. It offers the
highest mountains to climb and the lowest depths to descend into. It is possible to travel to, begin
in, or stay on other continents, but for the scope of this book, it will assume that the players will
stay in the North Americas.

Stable Genetic Strains
Amoebas
Excerpts from, “Mafioso Mo-Fo, a memoir by Router Howard”
“I was born into privilege. Our family was the biggest baddest family around for a
hundred miles. We had our fingers in every delicious pie. We had the local law boys resting in
our pocket. All the shops gave us our due cut. The nearby farmers always gave us their best.
The body politic served only as our mouthpiece. Even the local militia was bent to our will.
Money came in hand over fist and my every desire was satiated. Being the firstborn the legacy
was all mine just as soon as Papa Pachinko kicked the bucket. Considering what I had to gain, is
it a surprise that I had him whacked? When he fell, I rose. Taking the mantle in my hands…”
“Times were great then…”
“I should have suspected a power play was going on. Din-no wanted to know just a little
too much about what we did. Just how he managed to get Torque, my best and most trusted
body guard, to turn against me, I have never learned. The offer Din-no gave me was irresistible.
Give him the reigns of our family and leave in exile, or get whacked. If I ever get my hands on
that double crossing bastard…”
“It was next to impossible to scrape together enough coin to eat, much less find a place to
stay. I squatted in abandoned apartments. The other residents would scream the most disturbing
things through the night. “Jesus Christ is an alien!”, “There’s a robot in my tooth!”, “I am
suddenly aware of my tongue!” were some of the more memorable rants that would keep me up
all night. That’s where I found Septum. She was a gorgeous thing. Totally nutty, but good
looking none the less. I lived in that hell hole for about a year eating scraps I would find around
the neighborhood in desperation and starvation. But you’d be surprised what you can do when
you have to…”
“Eventually Septum and I decided to form a little group to better ourselves. We had a
stinking rotter nerd named Buck Starr, a wretch of a man named Thogngh, and of course the
real freak Septum. We had some great adventures…”
“There was this one job we got where we had to deliver a tupperware container across the
wastelands. This guy who called himself, “The Overlord” wanted to have a secure message sent
to some of his cronies. So his grand idea was to put it in some tupperware and tie it closed with
some string. Well the curiosity eventually got to me and one night after everyone went to sleep I
had to see what was inside. I couldn’t believe my eyes, the bastard meant to…”
“After that great score of pre-Plague tech, we got split up. Thogngh fell into a pit of
drugs pretty hard. He got mixed up with the wrong people and the pain just got to be too much
for him. Septum opened up a general store. She sold only the weirdest crap, like broken bottles,
lint, scraps of used paper, and bobble head people. Septum must have really lost her mind after
seeing the depths of Ft. Mayer all those years ago. Though all of us were pretty changed by that
day. Buck caught a face full of axe after a particularly tricky game of cards. Of course it didn’t
help that he had owed me quite a bit of money at that point and I may have suggested some
cheating going on. As for yours truly, I found the love of my life. It was an ancient throne hand
crafted with fine perfectly aged leather. The throne is so plush you just sink down when you sit.
And the gems dazzle and sparkle in the sunlight just right. I also managed to work a coup to
reclaim what was taken from me by Torque and Din-no. They’re heads now rest on either side of
my throne. So it’s from my love that I decided to write these memoirs…”

Physical Description- First off, Amoebas are not fat. They’re chubby, portly, husky. But not
fat. One unifying feature of most Amoebas is their weight. Worst of all, it’s not their fault. As a
stable genetic line, they are all overweight. Another striking feature of the Amoebas is their skin.
It is a shiny and smooth skin. Their skin has the same texture as a plastic doll’s skin would be.
The final common physical trait among Amoebas would be their sluggishness. It’s not that
they’re lazy, they are just resistant to doing any unnecessary physical activities.

Mental Description- The Amoeba’s mental faculties are sharpened to a razor’s keen. They
are forever honing their ability to manipulate those nearest to them. Amoebas are very purpose
driven and when they set their minds, not much can deter them from their goals. When
situations require them to be they are loyal, friendly, and even slightly outgoing they can be. Yet
normally they brood, sulk, and quite are lonesome. Amoebas have memories that stretch back
quite far when remembering any offenses against them, yet their memories unexplainably
become faulty when trying to remember any instance where they have offend anyone else. They
also have quite a memory for those who do right by them and as such Amoebas will actually put
forth effort to repay them. Even if it is only to prevent their friend from having any kind of
leverage over them. Ultimately they seek to come out on top of any deal that they participate in.

Names- To select their names, the Amoebas reach far back to the pre-plague days for
inspiration. Owing their strain’s forefathers they name their children after the great stars of the
days before the plague. Unluckily the years haven’t been kind to the memories of days long since
passed. Such being, the names that they use tend to be distorted versions of the famous’ names.
Some examples include, Mickey Moose, Jamie Deans, Paris Milton, and 75 Cent.
Home- The great life is a hard thing to forget. As a result the Amoebas can be found in the
largest and oldest sprawling mansions left over from the pre-plague days. Some of these
compounds are inhabited by the ancestors of those who lived there before the plague broke out.
Family Description- Amoeba families are usually large and include the entire extended
family. The whole family is run by the eldest living person in the family. Be they man or woman.
These families lie, cheat, backstab, and vie for whatever favors and prestige they can get within
their family. The ultimate punishment, short of death, is to be cast out of the family.

Religion- Believe mostly that there is a higher power above them. They just don’t care much
more than that about it. It leaves them alone, so the Amoebas will do the same. Unless you
count pre-plague celebrities and the Amoeba’s near fanatical worship of the celebrities.
Reasons for Adventuring- Amoebas only leave the house when it is absolutely necessary.
They much rather the seclusion and protection of their families and send out their underlings to
the world. Those Amoebas that are found out of their families’ compound are usually trying to
expand the controlled assets of the family itself. Those who aren’t out for kinder reasons are out
in the real world because they’ve been exiled from their families.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Why do all the hard work yourself when you can just as easily
hire someone to do it for you. That’s the opinion of Amoebas. They would always rather have
another person do the “dirty” work for them. So their preferred arms and armor are anything
that their lackeys can use well enough.

Usual Occupation- Amoebas will take any work that gives them a margin of power over
others. It must have little to no physical labor involved either.

Strain History- Nearly every Amoeba can trace their family’s history back to the days before
the plague. That long line connects directly to a celebrity of that time. Be they a famous
political figure, movie star, artist, or just a spoiled child of the famous, they all turned into
Amoebas when the syrum was taken. The syrum’s perverting effects worked to undo all the hard
work they put forth into their bodies. With the pain and horror they faced after the Syrum
warped their bodies into bloated, glossy, hulking creatures, the Amoebas all retreated behind
closed doors and put their vast resources to work building a base of power for themselves. As the
madness spread and the governments crumbled around them, they began calling in favors,
making bribes, and performing their power plays. As such Amoebas have secured a place where
they have little to fear from any who are hopeful to overthrow them from their little kingdoms.

Mutations- Allergies (34), plastic skin (35) , silicone flesh (36), overactive stomach acid
production (77), lethargic (92).

Other Bonuses- +1 to Abstract, +4 Base Flesh

Other Negatives- -1 from Tendons, -2 Initiative

Boars
“Anarchist’s Declaration” by Flack Sloan
I was raised in the crammed livestock pens. Forced to eat the processed remains of my
brothers and sisters. I have watched my closest friends become your dinner. That is why I must
be a revolutionary.
You may be asking yourself, “Why should i listen to this braggart?” Firstly I have led
hundreds of men and women in countless battles to overthrow a host of oppressive pricks. I am
also the originator of the famous “Flack Maneuver.” If that doesn’t sell you then keep this in
mind. In a world where the slightest error leads to your death, everybody waits patiently for the
most slight hint of weakness, where living and thinking earn you a price on your head, I have
survived for 47 years.
I must fight with my last dying breath to prevent even one person from knowing the
horrors I have known. The enemy are the cruel overlords who oppress anyone for their own
gains. The man who forces others to till his land for little to no compensation. The woman who
weaves a net of deception and lies to enslave with “credit” and “currency”. Even the he/she who
uses raw violence to force labor.
Curious what you can do now that your heart is enflamed? Well follow these easy steps
and before long you’ll be a celebrated hero of the downtrodden.
1. Seek a local revolutionary cell. They are well hidden from most normal people thanks
to the price on most revolutionaries’ and escaped Boar’s heads. Be prepared to let them find you,
and not the other way around.
2. Once you become a member of the hidden cell take any advantage you can of all the
training your fellow revolutionaries may offer. You can never have too much training.
3. As you and your fellow freedom fighters become more efficient at your trained
regiments begin to secure supplies you will need. By any means you have available secure your
supplies, including lying, cheating, stealing, and if absolutely necessary murder. You should
acquire as much of the following as you can,
• Sturdy melee weapons (axes, clubs, or well made knives)
• Personal protection (heavy padded clothing, bullet proof cloth, shaped metal plates)
• Food and water (enough for a month of isolation for every member you have)
• Any working communications equipment (CB radios, television broadcasting)
• Alternative locations for retreat under the worst circumstances
4. Continue to train even more. Remember, you can never train too much, right?
5. Refine your techniques with others. Distribute your talented people around your local
cells. Never keep all your most skilled personal at one location together.
With all those preparations accomplished you should be ready to start sticking it to The
Man. While you’re putting The Man in his place, don’t forget to free your fellow captive
brethren. In fact while those fellow now freed buddies are hanging around, try to get them to
join the cause. Have them fill your depleted ranks or even start new cells themselves.
Remember though we may be broken, killed, tortured, or slaughtered, the spirit of
revolution can never be destroyed. With your hard work we are one step closer to freeing the
world from the clutches of The Man.

Physical Description- The boars are vertically challenged. Luckily good things come in
small packages. Their stature is short yet stocky. Their skin is a bit on the rough side and to
further enhance this they have short and stiff bristles covering their skin. Their faces pull out to a
snout of sorts complete with a pair of small tusks. Boars also have a cute little curly tail on their
backsides. Just never tell them it’s cute, you’ll regret it. The final physical feature that the Boars
are identified by would be the near constant rumbling in their bellies. Only freedom, or a
staggering amount of food, can quiet their stomaches.

Mental Description- Boars are always seeking the underdog, the downtrodden, the long shot.
When they find a person fitting one of these descriptions they imeadiately throw everything they
have to help them out. Until the Boar believes that the downtrodden underdog has come on top.
Then they will switch sides without second though or doubt. Care is always to be taken when
dealing with the Boars though. For they are very quick to anger. The knowledge of knowing
that they have a price on their heads, they savor it all, and fight for change. They live hard, fight
harder, and die fast. Luckily for most the Boars are moved to joy even quicker. Yet when things
become difficult and waste starts hitting fans Boars are always the first to raise arms and join the
fight.

Names- Typical Boars abandon their “given” name, which is typically a serial number of one
sort or another. Rarely some will keep the number as their name to always remember the reason
they started fighting in the first place. Boars that take a second name and renounce their given
name choose half remembered bits of military jargon and termonology. Some colorful examples
of Boar names are, BR70383, P1178, 362436SWF, Snafu, Fubar, Rug Bomb, and Ella Pincer.

Home- Being constantly on the run, Boars do their best not to become particularly attached to
any place they call home. None know when they’ll have to make a last moment dash never to
return. As such the Boars all look for hidden places to call their own. Abandoned underground
train lines, neglected apartment complexes, flop houses, hidden caches, underground hide-outs
all make excellent canidates for Boars to live in. The more desolate, secluded, and disgusting
looking, the better for them. The less people want to go explore the Boar’s home turf, the longer
it remains hidden.

Family Description- In the stock fields the Boars are kept together with no particular
attention to family groups. Without time or ability to form and cement family bonds, escaped
Boars do the best that they can to form their own families. They consider their friends to be the
only family they have and need. They also view personal relationships to be shared with
everyone equally and manogamy is a concept that is beyond their understanding.

Religion- Boars have very busy lives filled with preperation for the next valliant fight, scouting
of new locations to run to, and gathering people to their cause. As such the Boars do not heed
any religion in particular. They would much rather spend what little free time they have enjoying
the fruits of their lives rather than being tied down by a religious ideal and ritual.
Reasons for Adventuring- The only option for a Boar to stay alive is to fight. Fight against
the person who condemned countless Boars to slavery and death. Fight against others that would
put others down. Fight against anyone who doesn’t agree with their ideals. That being the case,
Boars quickly learn that they can not have much impact alone. To find others with similar ideas
and morals to join them in the fight is a great boon. Thus most Boars seek to find groups of
people to adventure with so they can have the best possible chance of making a difference.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Boars draw a lot of their strength from the militaries and
freedom fighters of the pre-plague days. Their preferred arms and armor are easily any preplague
military hardware they can get their hands on.
Usual Occupation- Boars usual occupation, surprisingly enough, is as freedom fighters. They
are revolutionaries at heart. Anywhere the man puts someone down, you can bet that there’s a
group of Boars waiting and biding their time to strike and destroy the man and his incidious
macinations.

Strain History- In the years before the Plague ravaged the planet’s population, people ate
pork. It wasn’t a particularly popular meat, but some liked it well enough. The problem arose
when the Syrum was administered after the consumption of pork. The eaters of pork awoke the
next day to find themselves transformed into hybrids of pork and man. Unluckily for the Boars
all of the conflicts that arose from the destabilization of the world’s governments led to mass
warfare. In the process of the conflicts the livestock populations were decimated, and the greedy
meat loving people turned their eyes to the next best thing. Hence began the enslavement and
conversion to a stable food source for the rest of the world. Nobody liking their dinner to ask
questions about the ethics of being eaten, the farmers selectively choose to breed the intelligence
out of the Boars. For the most part it succeeded, but every once in a while a Boar is born with
enough intelligence to notice that their station in life isn’t a fair one. So they fight to escape.
Then fight to live. Being a farmer’s source of money, any Boars found outside of the pastures
where they feed typically have a bounty on their live return. This bounty varies from farm to
farm, depending on the amount that the farmers actually have available to pay.

Mutations- Snout (14), curly tail (15) , pigskin (39), dwarfism (52), overactive digestion (55).

Other Bonuses- +30 to Blunt Absorb, +20 to Laceration Absorb.

Other Negatives- -1 from Learnable, -1 from Stored.

‘Bot
Resume of B. P. Hammer
Employer- Earl Lewis Smithington XXVI
Terms of Contract- Short term protection.
Details of Job- Fairly decent client, once you got past the nickel and dimming. Lived in one of
those communes, you know the kind that those Immune live on? Anyway Earl wanted me to
cover him while he picked up some supplies at the next town. Seemed simple enough, go in,
make busy, split. As it turns out the townspeople didn’t look so kindly to the Immune. After I
cracked a few skulls they left well enough alone. The shop keeper initially wanted to refuse Earl,
but some comments about where I’d leave my axe changed his mind. On the way back with a
rucksack full of basics (seeds, bolts, flint, etc) a posse of rednecks from town thought they would
ambush us. Suffered some minor injuries, left them much worse off.
Fee- Mr. Smithington paid me with preserved food stuffs (some pretty delicious jams and jerky)
and a free patching up by the town doc.
Employer- Molly Nbdenum
Terms of Contract- Long term protection.
Details of Job- Wanted me to guard her while she worked. Snooze-o-rama at first until she
started trying to sleep with me. She didn’t take rejection too well and tried to drug then
experiment on me. Luckily for me she messed up something with the drug. Subdued her then
ran.
Fee- Took some compensation from her lab, then bugged out.
Employer- Demo L. Tion
Terms of Contract- Short term assault.
Details of Job- Approached by a member of the group, “Freedom Uninhibited Coalition of
Kindred Spirits.” Cute gal by the name of Demo offered me an irresistible smash and grab. We
were to hit Sassafras Farms. Kill any resistance, which was estimated to be under trained and
geared slavers. Then snatch any “livestock” that was well enough and smart enough to come
with. Things started pretty standard with an unusual surprise making it a cake walk. Then
before I knew it, the job was done. Pretty freaking easy.
Fee- All the loot i wanted off my kills as well as marvelous 12 gauge shotgun.
Skills- Good with big bashers, you know axes, maces, even the rare sword or two. I know my
way around most long arm rifles. Decient enough at tracking. I have a fair knowledge of
electronics use, matience, and repair. I am also very good at hand to hand fighting.
Education- Three tours of duty with the North Salem Defense Force. After that learned from
the School of Hard Knocks. Been selling my skills for 6 years to anyone who made it worth while
to me.

Physical Description- ‘Bots get their title from a shorthand for the word robot. Most who
have little to no actual contact with ‘Bots believe that they are robots instead of people. Truth is
that the ‘Bots are in fact people with a very singular features. The first feature that gives the
robotic impression is their metal skin. Their skin is a cold reflective metal. The second “robotic”
feature is the mechanical limb. Every ‘Bot has one limb that is a collection of springs, wires,
sheet metal instead of flesh and blood. Which limb is a trait that is passed on, like all mutations,
from the mother of the ‘Bot to the child. Over all the ‘Bots are tough cookies and they look and
act the part.

Mental Description- Due to the typical ‘Bot’s job being a gun for hire, they think
militaristically. Always planning for escape strategies, terrain layouts, strategic points, and field
value are things that usually weigh in the back of their minds. On the rare chance that a ‘Bot is
allowed to let his mind relax and wander, one can bet that their mind goes straight to the nearest
and biggest party. ‘Bots work very hard, and they let loose even harder.

Names- Thanks totally to the assumption that they are robots, most ‘Bots are named after old
tools and mechanical devices. Some classic ‘Bot names are; Socket Wrench, Allen Wrench, Multi
Meter.

Home- When a ‘Bot looks for a new home to make their own. The first step they do is find a
very defensable location. Buildings with a good view of the lands around. Then the building
itself should be made of strong and durable materials. Finally when they select the perfect home,
they make it their own by further increasing the defenses of the house with any materials they
can find.

Family Description- When a ‘Bot is on the job they don’t usually have the time or spare brain
power to play the field to find a little love. Off the job they rather enjoy the persuit of intimate
attention. But once again because of their dedication to their jobs, any ‘Bot relationships are
usually short lived. Though they never seem to complain about it.

Religion- In an unexpected contradiction to their hedonistic relationships ‘Bots have strong
religious beliefs. They further the the robotic misconception by being pivitol members of The
Church of the Analogue. The Church of the Analogue believes that technology is an
embodyment of divinity. With research progressing at a snail’s pace after the plague, technology
that was created before the plague is considered the apex of technology. The most revered of
pre-plague technology is the deadly nuclear bomb.

Reasons for Adventuring- Finely honed combat skills, a family legacy of combat duty, and
natural armor, it would be a shame if ‘Bots didn’t adventure. They do it because it’s what they’re
good at and it gives them a rush that they can’t find anywhere else. Though the cold cash and
gear doesn’t hurt either.

Preferred Arms and Armor- ‘Bots like their gear to be just like they are. Big, flashy, and well
maintained.

Usual Occupation- If they do what they do best, ‘Bots will do something in the line of fire.
Their usual jobs are hired mercernaries, bodyguards, soldiers, and hit-men.
Strain History- Long ago in the days before the plague, there were those who were
handicapped. The world did its best to give these people any advantage to help overcome their
handicap. The most popular method involved using artificial materials to re-create missing
limbs. When the syrum came into contact with the handicapped, it not only cured their
handicap, but it served to strengthen them more than those around them. As the governments
crumbled and dictators worked to fill the gap, ‘Bots found and secured their place as muscle.

Mutations- Metallic bones (21), leaden skin (25) , natural battery (51), mechanical limb (76),
receives radio waves (85).

Other Bonuses- +1 to Muscles, +2 to Bones.

Other Negatives- -2 from Sub-conscience, -1 from Abstract.

Brains
The Effects of Pre-Plague Media on Isolated Peoples
In this essay I propose to demonstrate the effects on isolated towns who have access to pre-plague
fictional literature, dramatized video media, and graphic dominated mini-books. The towns I
studied had a historical use of fictional materials being studied as non fictional materials. I shall
call upon mostly rely on my first hand personal experience to write this essay and support my
hypothesis.
My beginning observations began in a small post-plague town of Ashland. It’s population
numbers extremely low at around 50. The majority of the town has retreated to the safety of a
strip mall that was built long before the plague. The town, many years before any can remember,
moved their government to a bookstore. As the years passed the town leaders and the novels they
used to make their decisions became more and more mystical. The system of government went
from a bureaucratic mess of red tape to a council of elders that made all the decisions for the
good of the town. The elder council, which called itself The Council of Nine, was composed of
nine elder members of the tiny town. For the most part The Council of Nine were content to
pass rulings between small personal disputes that occurred in the town. To sustain itself the town
traded various reserves it possessed from the substantial inventories of the stores they lived in.
Unfortunately all the extremely valuable goods that this small town would produce regularly to
barter for food with attracted the wrong kind of attention. A couple of raider attacks and the
town had lost all of it’s technical manuals and nonfiction worth taking as well as the bulk of the
expensive luxury goods they had in large amounts. The townspeople of Ashland had to come to
grips with a terrifying prospect. Learning to produce their own goods from scratch once more.
As fate would have it, signs and organization that separated the fiction from non faded.
Eventually the town’s elders began to trust the fictional word as truth. Eventually through much
trial and error the town rediscovered the age old secret of agriculture.
This in itself isn’t remarkable. The remarkable part is their singular decision to interpret the
pulp sci-fi books and comics as instructional manuals in the ways of combat. They are the
progenitors of the philosophy of The Book. The Book teaches that “the first way to master a
combat form is to make one out of necessity in the heat of battle. The second way is to observe
how the great heroes from ages past fight, based on the recounts in our revered library.”
Though the idea may seem laughable in a laboratory, time and time again it’s been proven that
the methods are exceptionally effective. Speaking from personal experience (I am a 10th level
Barbarian and have made great use of the techniques that I learned along the way to defend
myself) the techniques are difficult and clumsy in the beginning. But after the first year
everything seems to fall into place. Amazingly enough these people managed to create a useful
martial art from fictional sources.
Now another interesting parallel is the entertainment hub of Silicon. The Scions of Rewind
model their combat form after pre-plague action movies. They are divided on the subject of the
source of the most useful teachings. The followers of Enter the Fist believe that the best
teachings can only be gained from the far eastern movies. Their polar opposite believe that the
best forms of defense are garnered from right here in the great west. They call themselves the
followers of Shwartz-A-Fisty. It’s amazing to see two separate cultures both adopt amazingly
similar misinterpretations of ancient pre-plague media and apply it in a real world setting.

Physical Description- Brains don’t look too different from what normal humans once looked
like. Their skin color varies depending on their ethenicity. Their hair color varies pretty
normally from nearly white to jet black. A Brain’s weight also covers the range from rail thin to
portly and overweight. The one difference about Brains would be their heads. Their heads are
overly large and swollen looking. Further to contain all the smarts of a Brain, their brains swell
up. Their skulls and skin can’t keep up and gives up trying about half way through a Brain’s
development leaving cracks and large sections of their brains exposed to the world around them.

Mental Description- Thanks to that gigantic noggin of theirs, Brains are all quite intelligent.
They all have a common thirst for knowledge and a unlimited mental potential. Though this
brilliance does come at a price. When they find a subject that catches their fancy, Brains will be
driven to understand their focus to the point of forgetting the little things. Little things like
personal hygean, prior appointments, upcoming events, impending danger, sleeping, even
maintaining their bodies.

Names- With such an investment in the scientific fields, most Brains even donate their names to
science. The usual names are derived from scientific terms and theories. Some popular names
include, Co Sine, Resonance, Myocardial Infarction, Ethn Ology, Kelvin.

Home- Brains are the most picky of the strains about the place that they call home. They
require locations that have advanced facilities that can help them progress their own personal
knowledge. Meaning they need all the fancy equipment and any books they can get their hands
on for their house. Also a need is present to prevent outside influence on experiments, Brains like
places that are clean and can be kept clean. No wrecked buildings need apply. Another favorite
option is a constant flow of electricity to the building. Alas beggars can’t be choosers, so Brains
rarely get all that they want without sacrificing something for it.

Family Description- Because of their scientific history, Brains have a very unique view of
families. They see the family as a means to create a better future generation. As such a Brain
will select a partner that they believe will produce the best results when combined with their own.
After conception, the Brain and their partner will remain with the child and attempt to pass on
all the knowledge that they possess. When both partners have instructed their child in all that
they can, the child is allowed to go into the world and increase their knowledge.

Religion- Science doesn’t typically play well with religion. They both try to cancel one another
out. Brains are scientists, one and all. As such most Brains do not worship any particular religion
heavily. The Brains that do have faith in a higher power put their faith into The Church of The
Analog.

Reason for Adventuring- When a Brain becomes full of the knowledge of their parents, it is
expected of them to go out into the world. This leaving of the nest is for two reasons. The first is
to recover knowledge lost during the plague and the disasterous events afterward. The second
reason is to collect field data, formulate theories, and put their theories to the test to advance the
post plague world.

Preferred Arms and Armor- If a Brain is forced to cary a weapon and wear armor then
they will have what is considered cutting edge items. These prototypes they usually make
themselves or they get the prototype from a close friend or family member. These weapons and
armor either fail miserably or they perform beyond anyone’s estimate.

Usual Occupation- If it wasn’t obvous until now, Brains are typically in a field of research.
They prefer to work on the side of theory and leave production and field testing to others if
possible. Unluckily they must take matters into their own hands all too often when it comes to
their prototype devices.

Strain History- As the world panicked over the plague wreaking havoc on everything, the
scientists of the world kept their cool heads. They went through the paces and did their best to
find a cure to the plague. A startling thing began to creep through the scientific community. The
usual suspects for disease eradication, much less control were having no use. Conventional ideas
started running out as the plague hungerly devoured human life. Then the unconventional ideas
ran out. As the ideas started running out, scientists began turning to experiments that were much
less ethical. Injecting bleach into convicts veins, genetic engineering of humans, prolonged
induced fevers, and dozens of other terrible methods were employed to try and hault the progress
of the plague. None had any effect. Then an unknown lab manned by unknown scientists came
out with the quicksilver-like cure to the plague, nicknamed “The Syrum”. The first prototype
syrum was greedly horded by the scientists themselves and in due time the result was the first
large hatred of a stable genetic strain. The scientists all transformed into what later was called
the Brains. As the rest of the world became mutated freaks also, the initial hatred of the Brains
cooled to a jovial dislike. While the opinion of the Brains was changing, the Brains secured their
place just as they had in their previous lives as the scientists and researchers of the world.

Mutations- Uncovered brain (12), abnormally large head (27), inherited memories (56),
nearsighted (80), lethargic (92).

Other Bonuses- +2 to Stored, +1 to Abstract.

Other Negatives- -2 from Muscles, -1 from Bones.

Dryads
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand. Six one thousand. Seven one thousand.
It seemed that the events had a gravity of their own. The most terrible of things always seem to
start as the simplest and easiest of situations. But these are the musings of an old man, and I
should
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand. Six one thousand.
stick to facts. Sounds like it’s getting closer. When I was young my father told me that when I
saw lightning to count. When the thunder crashed, that was how far away the storm was.
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand.
Sounds like the storm is getting closer.
I should have read the signs. Subtle as they were, I am trained to read them. This wasn’t my first
negotiation by far. And now the burden will rest on my shoulders for the rest of my days. Its all
coming down around my head. The whole thing began as many of these do, over land. It’s not
like there isn’t enough of it to go around nowa days. The participants first pretended to “have
everyone’s best interests in mind”. Bull.
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand.
The discussions seemed to go remarkably well at first. That should have been a warning. Instead
my first warning was a provision that worked me out of the negotiations. Me! The negotiator,
banned from the negotiations!
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand.
After that, it only got worse. The Einhorn Sindicate first cut me out of the negotiations. Then
they made the negotiations a “private afair” and cut out the public. The last straw was when
they actually worked the other party, The Red Shirts, right out of the deal. I have never been so
blind sided during a negotiation. It’s starting to look like this old man won’t get another chance
to make the same
One one thousand. Two one thousand.
mistake. The shelling is getting closer. The Red Shirts were clear when they said that they would
not stand for this travesty. Who could know that they had a full artillary battery. Or that they
would use it to shell the city to rubble.
It’s ironic. I’m an old broken man, in an ancient breaking city.
One one thousand. Two---

Physical Description- Dryads really stand out in a crowd. The first and most striking feature
is their skin. The skin of a Dryad has more in common with a tree’s bark than it does with
regular human skin. It has the same rough texture, brown color, and about the same thickness as
bark. Another special Dryad characteristic is their “hair”. Instead of being soft and silky, a
Dryad’s hair is made of small twigs, leaves, and in some cases even flowers. Dryads stand out in
crows in less metaphorical ways thanks to their extreme tallness. They have a normal range of
weight, but their heights are a full head taller than others around them. The final major unique
Dryad feature is their ability to go for long periods without eating any food. Their hair can
absorb sunlight and their feet draw nutrients from the soil. The draw-back of surviving this way
is the Dryad must keep their movements down to a minimum to reduce the amount of energy
needed to live. When Dryads survive like this for any amount of time, they are very easy to
mistake for actual trees. A final feature that few know about is the Dryad’s sight. They perceve
the world in a different way than everyone else. How exactly nobody knows.

Mental Description- Given their slow plodding nature as well as ability to survive without any
outside input, Dryads are minorly withdrawn. When you do draw a Dryad out of their shell they
are friendly, intelligent, and full of insight only gained from observing people for a long time.
They are also known for having a mind for details and figures. Though their minds bend closer
to the areas of law and linguistics rather than the sciences.

Names- Being so alike to plants, Dryads steal their names from plants naturally. The more
rural they are the more well known common names. The more sophisticated city dwellers prefer
to have more fancy latin or greek names. Some examples are, the rural Sunflower or the city
Helianthus Annuus, the rural Linseed or the city Linaceae, the rural Birch or the city Betula, the
rural Olive or the city Olea Europaea.

Home- In an unlikely twist the withdrawn Dryads prefer to make their homes deep in the
center of the towns that they live in. This is owning to their typical job being so closely
associated with the town’s governments. Their actual homes are crafted from natural materials
found close by. In the parks of their neighborhoods rest the tired forms of the Dryads who need
some time away from the rigors of life.

Family Description- Dryads’ families are unique. Not in the structure, which is a normal
nuclear family, but in the living situation of the Dryads. They live together about half the time
and the other half of the family member’s time is spent in deep thought in the neighborhood
park soaking up some sunshine.

Religion- Dryads do not practice a solid institutional religion. They all have a very personal
beliefs in nature itself. The Dryads follow a varying level of pagan worship of nature. The level
of ritual varies person to person. From a simple abstracted belief that don’t have any real impact
on their day to day activities to a full on rituals that are practiced on very specific dates and times
to pay homage to a myrid of gods and goddesses.

Reasons for Adventuring- Thanks to their stable nature and ponderous nature Dryads very
quickly find jobs in governmental and negotiatory posts. As such to find a Dryad adventuring is
an unusual occurance. From time to time Dryads will take matters into their own hands and
form an investigatory body for a town if one is lacking. Being investigators they are required to
journey out to look into leads and track suspects down.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Dryads are always getting in trouble for their preferred armor.
They really enjoy being all natural, AKA nude. Though those who experience with combat
quickly change their opinion of going “all natural”. When selecting materials to protect
themselves they gravitate twards natural materials such as wood, leather, or bamboo. For arms
the Dryads also go natural. Poisons delivered by any means they can come up with is the
standard means for those dastardly trees.

Usual Occupation- With respect to their longevity and their penchant for law Dryads find
themselves stuck in local governments. They serve as the arbitrators, judges, and investigators.
They can be generally found doing anything where an impartial third party is required. This can
be frustrating at times, so frustrated Dryads can be found performing other similar jobs. Such as
bounty hunters and organized crime lawyers.

Strain History- There was a movement that existed before the Plague that called it’s members
Vegans. They believed that injuring animals was morally wrong. As such they did not consume
or use any products that were made from or injured animals. When the Vegans were lucky
enough to get the Syrum, the only thing in the Dryad’s system were products made from plants.
The warping effects of the Syrum turned the Dryads into the one thing they could consume,
plants. As the times of anarchy raged around them, the Dryads did their best to stay out of the
conflict and some notable personalities even fought for peace. Unluckily they didn’t succeed for
some time. As the battles died down and the dust began to settle the Dryads were considered the
closest thing to an impartial third party in nearly every dispute that arises.

Mutations- Elongated limbs (5), leaves and bark (19), poisonous blood (42),
altered perception (59), photosynthesis (61).

Other Bonuses- +1 to Sub-conscience, double life span.

Other Negatives- -2 from Metabolism, -1 from Initiative.

Freaks
So you dweebs need some help getting sweet diggs of your own, huh? Well listen up, ‘cus i’m
only gonna tell you all you need to get a great pad and make it your own. So pay attention, ‘cus
i’m only writing this once.
1. Scout out your diggs. DO NOT run in and grab whatever you feel like. Pick a place that will
fit your needs. (eg. a good place to hide, a good place to defend, or whatever) Once you find a
building that fits your needs get comfortable somewhere hidden and watch your new home for at
least a day or two. You’re watching for any people or wildlife who had the idea to snatch the
building before you did. Last thing you want is a family of Croakers surprising you one night,
right?
Tricky Tip: To help pass the time why not try my favorite game, God Save the Queen? It’s
pretty easy and all you need is a bit of string, an apple (or any fruit really), and a statue of
Buddah. Nothing helps you pass the time quietly and quickly like a good ol’ game of GSQ.
2. Once you’re pretty sure that you’ll be the only gato staying there, check the place for any signs
for anyone else. If you find any fresh signs get out of there and watch the place for longer. If
you see someone or something go in or out of the place you might want to think about finding
yourself another pad. When you’re as sure as you can be that it’s empty and will stay that way
get to work cleaning your pad up. Choose a room or place that is out of sight of the outside for
your own space. Wouldn’t want anyone peeking in on you without knowing, right? So get rid of
all the crap you don’t want in your new home.
Tricky Tip: Leave any rooms you can see from the outside dirty, hell go for broke and wreck them
even more. The worst the rooms look, the less likely people will take the time to investigate your
diggs.
3. With your pad all squared away grab any supplies you’ll need to make it comfortable.
Definately grab the usual suspects, cans of food, candles, your personal water snatcher, whatever
else. Just don’t forget some less common gear. Such as tool kits, radios, your personal library,
pets, or some spare clothing.
Tricky Tip: Instead of laughing at those old art supplies you always find, try taking them back to
your diggs. You’d be surprised how much you’ll like a place when it’s all prettified just the way
you want to.
4. With all your fancy shinies taking up space in your new diggs, it might do you to beef up your
place’s protection. These largely depend on your building itself, your own personal requirements,
and what kind of crap you have available to do it. You really want to fight the urge to make a
bunch of lethal traps though. It would be a real shame if your new main squeeze wanted to
surprise you and instead got all corpsea-fied, wouldn’t it?
Tricky Tip: If you have stairs in your pad, put an extra board or whatever on just one step. Most
everyone will trip on that step and make a racket. You get an announcement whenever someone
comes and those that enter your diggs get a painful mistake. And all without that mess a body
makes!
Well i think that i’ve given you quite enough info to get comfortably dug in. So quit reading this
and get to work on getting a pad of your own!
Until next time peeps,
Anti-Tragus

Physical Description- Freaks are the most colorful of the stable genetic strains. Each family
has a certain “theme” that is passed from mother to child. These family themes focus on a
particular idea or concept and repeat this over the entire body in what looks like a full body
tattoo. These themes range from numbers, like lucky seven, to concepts such as penitance for
past offences. Another often overlooked feature of the Freaks are their hands and the extra finger
they posses. In an interesting twist the Freaks all share a nervous condition. When they are
excited, nervous, or angry their skin secretes a thick, brownish, waxy mucus. This mucus dries
very quickly when it secretes out and when it does dry it becomes tough enough to serve as a
protection from small attacks.

Mental Description- Instead of being manipulative, brooding, aggressive, or fierce Freaks are
oddly laid back. Freaks like to take things as they come and make due with what they have.
Eternal optimists and mercably protected from the predijustices most other strains suffer from has
allowed them to not be as high strung as some other strains.

Names- The Freaks all hail from the freaks of the pre-plague world. As such they have a great
collection of artists. These artists sometimes used traditional media such as paint, sculpture, and
written word. The families that come from traditional artists use traditional art supplies,
methods, and theories for names. Notable examples include; Prussian Blue, Perspecitive, and
Fractal. Those Freaks that come from the ancient freaks who used their own skins as media for
expression get their names from tattooing and body piercing lingo. These notable examples
include; Otto Clave, Prince Albert, Five Needle.

Home- Edgy and extreme locations are where you typically find Freaks. Crumbling apartment
complexes, shopping malls, and restraunts. They are inexorably pulled to buildings that existed
before the plague. The older the better. Once they have their dwelling secured they go to great
lengths to “decorate” them. Decoration includes smashing windows, spray painting obcenities,
and furniture made from empty beer cans.

Family Description- The Freaks have families as varied their ink. They run the gambit from
huge extended families of friends, to very close partners, and even a lone soul. You can usually
find Freaks in the middle ground though, living in nuclear families of two parents and their kids
living together until the kids are old enough to move out with spouses of their own.

Religion- Figuring out the Freak’s typical religion is nearly as difficult as finding the Freak’s
typical family structure. You can find Freaks practicing any religion available to worship. From
Born Again Satanist fanatics to non-worshiping Nihilists. Though there are members of the
fringe religions, most Freaks are Agnostics who generally believe in something above them, but
they don’t know what it is and not knowing doesn’t bother them.

Reasons for Adventuring- Freaks adventure for the same reason that young people typically
leave the nest. They long to see the world and experience excitement before they go to settle
down with that “special someone.” As such they tend to adventure out in the world and have a
good time for a few years, then they return home and settle down with their spoils.

Weapons & Armor- Being eternal optimists the Freaks usually just work with what is available to
them. So they’ll work with materials on hand to create their weapons and armor. If the funds
and supplies are available the Freaks prefer to have shiney guns and “bullet proof ” clothing.
They understand that it isn’t always (or even often) possible to get such wonderful toys. So they
work with scrap metal, shanks, slings, and zip guns.

Usual Occupation- When out and adventuring Freaks try to work with their artistic strengths,
thanks to not being particularly fantastic at any military skills. But they make up for this by
providing creative input and other secondary skills. When they finally finish sowing their wild
oats, Freaks settle into occupations with artistic aims, such as traditional artists or body artists.

Strain History- In the days right before the plague, a social group became dissatisfied with
humanity. They realized that we all have the same two arms, the same two legs, even the same
two eyes. So they did all that they could to to change what they had. They altered their skin with
tattoos, their faces with metal piercings, some even went as far as amputating small parts of their
bodies for the aestetic of it. These freaks, as they were called back then, took the syrum and it
took their body modification to a whole new level. Their tattoos spread to their whole bodies. As
the world lamented their corrupted fate, the Freaks rejoiced. They had exactly what they
wanted. As the world mutated, warred, and became turned upside down the Freaks settled into a
nice soothing habit. As such they remained the only source of normalcy while everything else
went to pieces.

Mutations- Tinted skin (37), breath smoke (44) , extra fingers (50), hardened secretions (69),
hemophiliac (70).

Other Bonuses- +2 to Skin, +1 to Stored.

Other Negatives- -1 from Base Flesh, -1 from Muscles.

Immune
The Grizwald Family Recounter
Well howdy Everybody! It’s me, good ol’ Aunt Ruth. Just writing this out to bring all the
family back up to date on all the craziness that’s been happening. Let me begin by wishing
everyone a very happy month of November. It’s been a long year so far, but the year is going to
pick up speed and before you know it, there’ll be another year behind you. We also have a few
birthdays to celebrate this month. I’m sure everyone will join me in wishing the following a very
special day, Erik Virgil Grizwald IX a happy 26th, Lucy Andorra Stanley-Grizwald VI who looks
younger every year, and finally little Herbert Bennett Grizwald II has his very happy 4th birthday.
So enough of my birthday ramblings, let’s get to the rest!
Let’s see, first thing’s first, Gregory Randolph Grizwald XVIII is looking for a hand
again. It seems he’s found yet another “treasure” map. Anyone interested should go talk to him.
Just go to his shack off the compound and I'm sure he’ll tell you all about it. Just be warned that
most think that he’s a few bottles short of a six pack. He means well and is a good man, but he
has a weakness for old maps and conspiracy theories.
Next there’s Clemens Mortimer Grizwald IX who just opened a new general store. He’s
got a great selection of a little bit of everything, including a great selection of live bait. So stop
on by you can’t miss it. The shop, Frogger’s Goods, is just off the main road near the side gate.
Nancy Erin Parker-Grizwald III and Harvey Valentine Grizwald XXXVII are
celebrating the birth of their sweet daughter, Katharine Alexander Grizwald XIX. She was born
a healthy and happy 6 lb. 13 oz. She’s as cute as can be, and we’re all looking forward to
welcoming her into our little community. Anyone who has any infant clothes that their little tykes
aren’t using are asked to donate them on over to Nancy and Harvey for little Katharine.
Speaking of our little community of Grizwaldenburg here’s some of the more interesting
events. A coulpa nasty ol’ marauders came through here and wanted to shoot everyone and
everything up. Luckily the Grizwaldenburg’s Regulars were quick to move in and keep them as
far away from everyone as possible. Still mayor Gracie Gilmore Grizwald Jr. did as she always
does and bought them off with money from our treasury.
Another thing of note is that the city council has passed a new resolution. Resolution
#378941 is to begin construction of a wall around our fair town. Those who supported the
resolution say that the wall would keep nearly all possible marauders at bay. It would also
invigorate our little town’s economy. Those that opposed the resolution, myself included, claim
that the wall will be ugly, overly expensive, and force more and more aggressive marauders to test
their mettle on our fair town. But either way, it’s coming, so anyone interested in working on this
project should visit the city council’s offices.
And with that, that’s all that has happened to our happy little community since last little
newsletter.
Hugs & Kisses
Aunt Ruth

Physical Description- Immune are just as the “normal” people would be if they didn’t ever
take the syrum. Because well, they never took the syrum. The Immune run the whole spectrum
of humanity from ebony African to alibaster European.

Mental Description- When living in the safety and security of their communities Immune
live carefree lives of relative comfort of home life. Those Immune who venture out into the
world and become lost in the slums or entangled in a net of slavery have totally a different
mentality. They are downtrodden, defeated, and nervous all the time. Though this probably
stems from random beatings, constant abuse, and the ever present chance of a long drawn out
death at the hands of an angry mob for no particular reason.
Names- The Immune really like their names. As such they reuse family names over and over
again. use family names over and over again. Notable names include; Maximilion Von Wanton
XVII, Sadie Elidah Constance XIV, and Kurt William Sinclare LIX.

Home- In the best of worlds the Immune live in isolation on their compounds with fellow
Immune. These sprawling communities house dozens of families and can have populations up to
hundreds. These communes have measly defenses and mostly rely on concealment or flat out
bribes to buy off attackers. In other worlds Immune make communes themselves in the slums
and huddle together with the other dredges of society for everyone’s common safety. In the worst
of worlds the Immune find themselves enslaved to brutal masters. The chains that bind them
may be finical in nature or just good old fashoned brutality.

Family Description- The Immune live in large communities that are very tight knit and
closed off from the other strains. These communities have to stick together to protect itself from
outside aggressors. These communities are formed by around a dozen families. These families
can trace their history to at least the time around the plague. The households house the whole
family from the great grand children to the great grand parents. Marriages are typically arranged
by the elder relatives to prevent inbreeding of the children. When outside of their compounds
they are usually living as beggars and stick together in slum communities, or worse surviving as
some slave to a malicious owner.

Religion- The old Christianity seems to be favored religion of the Immune. The exception to
this occurs with the Immune found outside of their compounds. Those away from their families,
found in slavery, can be found practicing any religion available. Though the religion seems to
depend heavily on the religion that their masters practice.

Reasons for Adventuring- Most Immune adventure to try and improve their lot in life.
Either to escape their vile master, break free of the slums, or to break away from the depressingly
normal life. As such they will jump with any group that’ll bust them out of their lot. As such
they often find themselves in worse situations than they were trapped in before. But the option to
improve their lot is worth any price they can pay.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Even in their communities the Immune are poorly equipped.
They don’t have much money to work with to start and the other strains don’t want to give
anything to the Immune. Well anything but violence. As such most Immune have to deal with
very shoddy items or craft them by hand. In their communes they manage fairly. Outside the
communes they have to live with rags for protection and poorly made shanks as weapons.

Usual Occupation- Inside the communes the Immune are allowed the opertunity to practice
any trade they wish. The compounds do their best to remain self supporting. Outside the
compounds most Immune’s job is vagrant, beggar, or slave. The options are pretty limited for the
Immune outside their compounds.

Strain History- The world experienced a plague the likes of which none had ever seen. It
killed without rhyme or reason and when you became infected, you might as well get your afairs
in order. A lucky rare few were naturally immune to the disease. These few were at first poked,
prodded, inspected, and interrogated to discover the source of their protection. No reason for
their immunity was ever found. After the syrum was discovered everyone abandoned the
Immune’s testing. While everyone was mutating and changing into terrible parrodies of
humanity, the Immune were normal as ever. At first the Immune kept airs of superiority, but as
their numbers shrank things changed. The other strains began to see the Immune as
representations of all that they had lost. Shame turned to anger. The Immune slowly became
effegies for all that the world had lost. So the long standing tradition of abuse began.

Mutations- None.

Other Bonuses- None.

Other Negatives- None.

Leathernecks
Transcript of a sermon as spoken by Father Mickey Lutheran
Father Lutheran- Scans the crowd. Takes in everyone amid a great ruckus of clapping and
cheering. After he has had enough he begins. “Greetin’s mah brethren. I do appreciate you all
commin’ togethah on such a hot day.”
Crowd- Various cheers and agreements to the temperature.
Father Lutheran- Wipes the sweat from his brow with a bright red rag, “Now i won’t waste
youah time with long introductions. Yall know me, and i most definitely know all yall.”
Crowd- Responds with cheers, laughter, and agreement.
Father Lutheran- “You see i have a great subject i must speak of to you. The subject is the
rampant evil lose in tha world. Tha evil as yall should know is the written word.” Scans over the
crowd once more.
Crowd- “Boo! No!”
Father Lutheran- Takes in the crowd’s jeers. Calms crowd down enough to speak again with a
wave of his hands. “The written word nearly killed us all. You see, before the great Plague, all
mankind became buried deeper and deeper under a mountain of words. It got to tha point
where people didn’t even wanna to talk to nobody without it being written out, certified, and filed
away with the propa authorities.”
Crowd- “Amen to that fatha!”
Father Lutheran- “The great Plague was the wake-up call that we needed to free ourselves from
the oppressive weight of those spoken words.” Pauses while he scans the crowd. “The Syrum
advanced us past the need for that tedious written word.”
Crowd- “Hallelujah!”
Father Lutheran- “We have advanced to where a man’s word IS his bond!” Pauses once more to
look over crowd.
Crowd- Seizes the brief pause and start chanting “Amen” and “Hallelujah”.
Father Lutheran- After a bit calms crowd down once more with a wave of his hands. “Now you
may be wonderin what all this has to do with yall, and i have to tell yall I'm gettin’ to that.”
Crowd- A few isolated whoops and hollers.
Father- Points directly into the crowd. Continues, “You see, YOU must do YOUR part. The
first thing you can do is don’t work in the slightest or buy nothin’ from someone who writes those
damnable words. Especially if they try to get you to write even a single little word. Don’t give
them nothin’. Not anythin’ at all.”
Crowd- More cheering and hallelujahs.
Father- “You want more? I said, do you want MORE? Then you can seek out the written word
and destroy it with purifying fire!” Pauses and scans the crowd. Looking for something in
particular it seems. “The more words burned the less- Hey! You!” He’s pointing. He’s pointing
at me. “Are you writin’ this?! EVERYONE GET HIM!” Oh god i have to get out of he-

Physical Description- Tall doesn’t even begin to describe a Leatherneck. Big and tall may
scratch the surface. Leathernecks are very large indeed. Think of the biggest person you know.
Then make them a full head taller than you and add an extra hundred pounds to them. That’s
about how big Leathernecks are. On top of this large frame is a georgous hide covered with a
fine and lovely feeling hair. On top of all this are a pair of large horns for more than just
decoration.

Mental Description- The sight of all the wanton murder combined with the heartless
treatment of their families makes for less than stable people. Not having stability in their younger days the
Leathernecks constantly seek any form of stability that they can discover. A universal constant is
that the Leathernecks always latch on to oddball cults and religions. These cults serve as an
extended family that the Leathernecks always desperatly desired, but were always denied.

Names- Being so heavily influenced by the philosophers, cult leaders, and religious figures they
like to take their names, or what they can remember of their names. As such the names are a bit
distorted. Some favored Leatherneck names are; Roch Thériault, T. Don Hibbard, and David
Korunch.

Home- Cults can get to be pretty large. With large cults, you need a large place to keep them.
So Leathernecks and their cults need large buildings to live in. Leathernecks in the market for
realestate search for warehouses, aircraft hangers, and any other large sized buildings. They
equip these buildings with enough sleeping space for the whole of their cults. When it comes to
the leader they get their own seperate living space to collect their thoughts.

Family Description- Leathernecks don’t have families in the strict sense of the word. Thanks
to growing up on the stockyards and being traded around like objects. Whenever a Leatherneck
does escape the stockyards, they imeadiately look for guidance. They universally find oddball
religions or cults. The Leatherneck quickly adopts the cult members as their own family. As the
Leatherneck rises in the cult hierarchy they begin insisting on the cult members do the same. As
a result the Leatherneck forms a family of their own.

Religion- The stranger the cult or philosophy, the more the Leathernecks love it. They are
strangely drawn to them like moths to the flame. The largest group that attracts Leathernecks is
the church of the Born Again Satanist. They believe that Christianity had it’s chance and the
“good book” clearly states that it’s time for the other side to have some fun. So the members of
the church go forth and indulge any desires they have.

Reasons for Adventuring- Leathernecks that leave the safety of their flock only do so for one
of two reasons. The first reason is to escape their masters and enslavement. With any luck they
only need to do this once in their lives, but the risk of return always exists because of the price
farmers put on their heads for a safe return. They are livestock after all. The other reason that a
Leatherneck would escape slavery would be to spread The Word. What The Word is exactly is
up to debate and varies largely from Leatherneck to Leatherneck. But it generally represents the
faith of their religion.

Usual Occupation- It’s no surprise that the Leathernecks use their cult leadership status as
their occupation. The cult members are expected to bring all their earthly materials to the cult.
These posesions are of course the property of the cult and all money goes straight to the all cult
members. Leathernecks would never keep the money for themselves. Or would they? With
enough members and land the Leathernecks can create a self sustaining commune with the
money that the cult members “donate” to the cause. That is if the Leatherneck doesn’t get
greedy with the money.

Preferred Arms and Armor- When you have dozens of people willing to do anything you
tell them, why would you ever want to use a brutish weapon? The Leathernecks would much
rather have their cult members do the dirty deeds for them. Though in desperate times, when
the flock is away or non existant, a Leatherneck will do what is necessary. They prefer to do the
work with their bare hands and faith that providence will guide them true.

Strain History- American men love meat. They would eat it for every single meal if they were
allowed. Their favorite meat of all was the beloved cow. These men were once the largest and
strongest men around. When it came time to die of the plague or take the syrum, they happily
took the syrum right after a nice steak dinner. The next morning the beefiest of men awoke to
discover that they were in fact now beef. They had become the one meat they loved most. So
they eventually tried to settle back into their lives. As governments collapsed others tried
unsuccessfully to replace the previous government. The replacements weren’t squeemish about
using violence to get what they wanted. One of the first victims were livestock. Pretty soon the
cows, pigs, and chickens became short in supply. About that time everyone discovered that the
Boars and Leathernecks were a pretty good alternative. Pretty soon the farmers stopped raising
regular livestock and began raising Leathernecks and Boars instead. Leathernecks were
preferred because they were much larger than the Boars. Farmers started breeding the
Leathernecks for meat and not for their brains. Over time the Leathernecks became as dim as
the cows they so closely resembled. Though every once and a rare while a Leatherneck is born
with enough intelligence to realize how terrible their situation is. It fractures their mind, but one
thing remains untouched, the urge to be free. So they run for freedom.

Mutations- Hoofed feet (6), horns (11) , leathery hide (40), gigantic (53), extra stomachs (60).

Other Bonuses- +2 to Metabolism, +1 to Skin.

Other Negatives- -2 from Learnable, -1 from Abstract.

Randoms
Well i guess this will have to serve as a sort of last testimate. I’m not quite sure how much longer
i’m going to last in this town. I really wish it wasn’t written on the back of cocktail napkins. But
you work with what you have, i suppose. That is the one thing i have always been quite good at
doing. Working with what i have.
It all began began about a week ago. I hooked up with a group of mercs. Called themselves,
“The Rough Boys”. I’ve got to stop running with groups that have the word, “The” in their title.
It always means bad news. I thought We got hired by a guy by the name of Jackobee, Janius, or
something along those lines. I don’t know, i didn’t haggle the contract, which was my first
mistake. I would have been able to smell the lies a mile away. Stupid noobs...
At any rate, the job was a standard town sweep to rub out a local warlord. Doing good to remove
a real asshole. Things went well at first (as they always seem) but eventually news of our little
group spread. It still startles me to see just how fast bad news can spread through a group of
people.
That’s when it all started falling apart. Someone must have had a long arm because Tony got
tagged in the face (i kept on telling him to take cover). Then the warlord’s force made it’s self
known. They started working us with crossbows. After they started shooting, i got grazed on my
leg and they tried to flush us out of our cover with a grenade that Veteren sat on. So i thought it
would be good to dig in. Zeek, Philips, Moonbeam, Mother, and Staple joined me behind a
dumpster in an alleyway. It reeked of week old fish, but it kept us alive, and that’s what counts in
the end.
Things were looking grim, Philips was bleeding from a dozen holes, Mother was freaking out,
and Moonbeam couldn’t believe what was going on. Rookies… On top of this, the warlord’s
forces, which turned out to actually be the town’s defence force, were closing in. That was a
pleasant surprise for everyone. Nothing like realizing that you aren’t the do-gooder, you’re
actually the big bad villian. On top of that, my baby Sally was almost out of shells to blast those
dumb imbred rednecks with.
So i did what usually works. Rally everyone, wait until the defence force closed in, then blast a
hole in the line with a lucky grenade lob, and run for it. I dragged Philips with Moonbeam
following, but the rest stayed pinned down. They were too shaken to do much of anything. So i
had to leave them. The locals didn’t seem too keen on our method of introducing ourselves. But
the others thought they would be alright if they surrendered. Those leaving hobbled down a few
alley ways, the sounds of gunfire and killing got further and further away. After what seemed to
be a lifetime, our jolly group busted into a great little watering hole, The Broken Spoke.
What a hole it was. But who can complain when drinks were on the house for everybody?
Though it eased my spirit out, it carried Philips to the grave. Moonbeam seems to be getting a
grip at long last. The rest of the group is probably either dead or captured.
Damn it why do i always have to do all the work? Looks like i’ll have to go and save the day. Yet
another town i’ll be vilafied in.
If i don’t make it, know that we didn’t know what we were doing. At least i didn’t know.
-Hannibal.

Physical Description- The Random strain is an interesting strain that’s united by their unique
appearance. The Randoms all fall into the “other” category of stable genetic lines. They don’t
belong to any of the other strains. They could have some of the other strains characteristics, but
not enough to fully fit in. Usually the Randoms have characteristics that are unique and not
possessed by the other strains. The physical traits of each individual Random varies from person
to person. They could look untouched just like the Immune, or they could have a Leatherneck’s
good looks, or even a Rotter’s filthiness. Point is the Randoms are all classified by the inability
to be classified into any other strain.

Mental Description- The Randoms can go in any particular direction of mental stability.
Some
Randoms are blessed with mental clarity, vision, and unique insights to the world. Other
randoms are not so lucky. They suffer delusion, obsession, and any other madness available.
Thankfully the bulk of Randoms have enough mental stability to keep themselves presentable to
the world.

Names- The Randoms names are nearly as random as the strain’s mutations. Random objects,
places, family names, or any other names that the other strains would use are suitable for
Randoms. A random sampling of Random’s names is; Herb Liencher, Lord Gothington,
Spotsylvania, Dewy Decimal.

Home- The Randoms live wherever they feel comfortable, from crumbling pre-plague housing,
post plague shanties made from the bones of the pre-plague world.

Family Description- To go with the rest of the Random’s randomness, their family structures are
pretty specific to the family itself. They have no set or even preferred set up of family. They’ll
range from huge extended families that span generations to a single “lone wolf ” who roams
alone.

Religion- The Randoms can be found knelling before any diety that is worshiped around. The
range of idols that the Randoms include everything from forbidden ancient evils to fururistic false
idols.

Reasons for Adventuring- Randoms adventure for any reason thought of, cast their lot in a
with rough and tumble crews, to adventure for the sake of adventuring, to seeing the world, or
for the simple reason of making cold hard cash.

Preferred Arms and Armor- This comes down to the personal preference of the Random.
The strain does not lean to any particular direction when it comes down to it.

Usual Occupation- The occupation of Randoms really comes down to what jobs are available
for them. They can be found performing any job available.

Strain History- The Random stable genetic strains demonstrate the most dreadful effect of the
syrum, it can’t ever be predicted. Some people were turned into their dinners. Others were
turned into their injuries. There are two strains who’s traits are just the roll of the dice. The
Randoms and the Wretched. Thankfully the Randoms are much more stable than the
Wretched. As it is the Randoms deomonstrate a particular fact about the newly “enhanced”
human genome. The genes are passed from mother to child. In the case of two different strains
mating the mother’s strain dominates the fathers and the child will be the mother’s genetic strain.
The Randoms are unique in the fact that the child can and often will have traits that neither the
mother nor the father have. Thus is their title of Randoms.

Mutations- Randoms have 1d10 mutations at creation that are rolled for randomly, of course.

Other Bonuses- None.

Other Negatives- None.

Red Herrings
Captain’s log of the Zephyr
27.000.13.26 Took on 3 passengers for what will be the ship’s 27th voyage. The 3 passengers are
Jonny Smith, Madame Moovilis Bovine, and Proteus Tronics. I have my reservations about
taking a stinking, diseased rotter onboard, especially with the curse of rotters and all. But the coin
was good and who knows, maybe we’ll be the first ship to survive a long term trip with a rotter.
They hired us to steam up the coast to try to find some wrecked ship. Their gear took bloody
forever to load. 13 and a half hours loading and refueling to be exact. After final preparations
are completed we’ll be away.
27.004.44.54 It’s been nearly 5 days of steaming up the coast. We’ve not had much adventure,
which is nice for a change of pace for us. One Eyed Vic pull a great gag on our guests earlier
today. He shut down our engines and started shouting over and over “Fire in the engine room!
Abandon ship! Abandon ship!” Before you could blink the whole group of pansies jumped right
over the rail into the sea. It was a riot. I almost peed myself laughing so hard at them. I’m so
glad i brought that wretch of a first mate onboard all those years ago. Our passengers eventually
climbed back onboard and after they dried off they finished unpacking their gear all over the
ship. Now we can’t step anywhere without tripping over it. Odd thing was even though their
gear was old, beaten up, and quite well worn, it was really fancy and it looked to be working.
Otherwise nothing to report.
27.011.01.26 We’ve finally stumbled on what the passengers were searching for. It’s a ship that’s
beached on a sand bar about three miles off shore. The wreck is about 362 miles north of Port
Birch-wood. The wreckage seems to be of a post-plague warship. Pretty nasty looking thing if
you ask me. So my crew and i set anchor about 150 yards off the wreck. Proteus begged me for
the use of our dingy, and being the fool I am, I couldn’t say no to those eyes.
27.018.59.59 Well it’s the last few minutes of our 7th day at this wreck. I had Proteus dine with
me in my private quarters this evening. I don’t care what the rest of the crew says, especially
Thirtyaught. He’s had his own fugly dates himself. Anyway Proteus is convinced that the
wrecked ship, the Vanguard, has some astounding gear hidden in it. All the equipment he
brought he’s using to try and get the Vanguard seaworthy again. Truth is even though he smells
like a dead cat, he could talk about anything and i’d be happy to just get lost in his stunning eyes.
27.024.13.26 We’ve been camped out here for nearly 14 days. Proteus says he and his people
can get their gear stowed in a day or two. For our sake and theirs, i hope they can. We’re
running low on food and fresh water. I don’t care if they just need a few more days to get the
Vanguard seaworthy, we are running out of supplies.
27.024.13.26 Fucking hell. I take five minutes away from the helm to see Proteus and we run
aground. Thankfully it’s low tide, so with a lot of hard work and luck we’ll get back in the sea
soon. We just need to patch the hole below the water line. I just hope that the approaching
storm holds out until we can get back out to sea to weather it out.
30.???.??.?? Well it’s been three days of the worst storm i’ve ever seen. We couldn’t fix the boat
before the tide came back. The rest of the crew and passengers all voted to weather the storm on
land instead of the boat. Thankfully we were not on the ship, the storm destroyed it and threw
the pieces to the four corners of the world. So this is my final entry in the captain’s log. We’re
going to try to follow the shore south and find any town we can. This is Captain Meri Time, of
the ship, The Zephyr signing off for the last time.

Physical Description- There is something fishy about the Red Herring. Their skin isn’t quite
right, their eyes are funny looking, their hands and feet are weird, and they’re always wheezing
for some reason or another. Their skin isn’t quite right because instead of skin, it’s actually scales.
Small, tight fitting, hard, and slimey scales that always seem to glisten in the sunlight. And these
scales are hard enough to act as protection form incoming blows. Their eyes are funny looking
because firstly Red Herrings have no eye lids. Secondly they eyes are huge. Freakishly huge.
They can just about see behind themselves with those peepers. The hands and feet of Red
Herring is weird because between their fingers and toes there is a web of skin, or scale rather.
Finally the Red Herrings wheeze thanks to both a set of lungs and a set of gills fighting to
provide the body with air to breath.

Mental Description- Red Herrings have an interesting duality to their personalities. When
they are out on the water, or even deep in the water, they are very calm and at peace with
themselves. They can still be upset, bothered, or annoyed, just not to any significant degree.
They feel empowered and in control of the world around them. Yet when they set out on the
land, the Red Herring instantly become a paranoid, superstitious group. Even with their all
seeing eyes, they still constantly scan the landscape for some unseen threat. They believe in odd
coincidences as omens, and obey eccentric superstitions such as never starting a landfall on a day
that starts with the letter, “T”. Get them back to the waters that they so love and they quickly
ease back into themselves and relax.

Names- With their moods so relaxed and at ease in the waters of the world, Red Herring
naturally take their names from anything that has to do with the seas. Mostly to do with sailor
jargon, but bodies of water also serve as their names, such as; Long I. Tude, Star Port, Euphrates,
or Rappohannock.

Home- No land loving home for these wanderers. Every Red Herring calls some boat their
home, they may not own the boat, but they’ll call it home none the less. These boats can be
single simple houseboats, or they can be flotilla of miss-matched ships roaming the seas. Red
Herrings also have home ports. They are places that they stop most often at to resupply their
ships before going back out to sea. These ports can be cities along coasts, caches on isolated
islands, or even underwater cities hidden beneath the seas.

Family Descriptions- With Red Herring spending so much time out on the turbulent,
unpredictable waters of the world, they naturally have to rely heavily on their crew mates to
survive the dangers. As such the Red Herrings eventually fall out of touch with their biological
families and replace them with their fellow crew mates. They find parents in those who rank
above them on the ship, children in the ranks below them, and lovers anywhere they can.

Reason for Adventuring- Red Herrings suffer a condition. They all are afflicted with a
wanderlust that is incurable. Every single one has a need for adventure in their blood. It’s just
the way that they are. And if they’re going do adventure anyway, the Red Herrings figure that
they might as well earn their keep while fulfilling their need for excitement in their lives.

Religion- The Red Herrings can’t stand the idea of being tied to anything in particular.
Especially religion. It’s not that they don’t believe in higher powers, or dieties, they just don’t
want to get tied up in the pomp and circumstance of it all. The closest thing to a religious
practice is the rituals they perform when they are on land, but those are more superstitions and
old wives tales that they employ to “protect” themselves.

Preferred Arms and Armor- To make their time out at sea longer with less need to stop port
side and repair their items, Red Herring opt for simpler weapons and armor. Simple metal plates
crudely pounded and cut into the vauge proper shape held on with string. Or even just plain ol’
clothes. For weapons they like crude blunderbusses, bows, and sturdy clubs to keep things simple
and reliable in the water.

Usual Occupations- This’ll come as a surprise, but Red Herrings find occupation as pirates
and seamen. They have advantages on the water, a great love for the water, a house on the water,
and a fear of the water. With the other strains not as well adjusted to the water, the Red Herring
oblige the other strains and help them on the seas, oceans, and lakes. That or they just take
advantage of their advantages and turn to a life of piracy and steal all that they could ever need
or want.

Strain History- For as long as man lived, those closest to the seas turned to them for sustinence.
Fish and various aquatic creatures made the bulk of their diet. They eventually turned to the
seas to earn their money and such. Many of these coastal people became Red Herrings after
taking the syrum and learning of it’s dastardly side effects. When the governments began to
shake and crumble, the Red Herrings took to the water to avoid the problems. Alas the anarchy
on the land quickly followed out to sea with the classic tradition of piracy. When things began to
settle, the Red Herring made more and more frequent stops back to land to reestablish contact
with the rest of the world.

Mutations- Webbed hands and feet (7), gills (17) , fish eyes (18), scales (41),
no sweat glands (47).

Other Bonuses- +2 to Muscles, +15 to Blunt Absorb

Other Negatives- -1 from Bones, -1 from Initiative

Rotters
“The Adventures of Atomic Andy and Robo Boy. Twiddle Dee and Twiddle Doom.”
Written by Atomic Andy
When we last left our intrepid hero and his inept side-kick they were deep in the dungeon of the
super sexy Sorphfeenia. They were captured in an intricate plot they first stumbled upon three
books ago, in “The Adventures of Atomic Andy and Robo Boy. Electric Eel Tango.”
Sorphfeenia lured the daring duo into a brilliant trap using Robo Boy’s one weakness. His love
for his pet electric eel. Let’s see how they’re going to get out of this jam.
“Gee Robo Boy we’re in quite a pickle, aren’t we?” Atomic bravely spoke.
“Man you know I hate it when you call me that. I’m 25, and you know my name is Jeremy Bolt.
But yeah, things do look pretty grim.”
As they spoke with one another they tested their bonds. Alas Sorphfeenia does a good job when
she catches her prey in her deceptive web. Both Atomic Andy and Robo Boy knew this. The
only hope for them was to wait until the perfect opportunity presented itself for their valiant
escape. Our brave hero did his best in the meantime to raise their sinking spirits.
“Well keep your spirits up. Things can’t be that-”
“-good for you.” interrupted Sorphfeenia, “Fings are looking fery fery bad for you. You have
fallen prey to the unbeatable Sorphfeenia!” proclaimed the devilish wretch.
“You shall not get away with this, fiend! No matter how beautiful you may be!” shouted Atomic.
“Hey she-bitch, lemme outta here or I'm gonna F you up. Now!” assisted Robo Boy.
“Ok I’ll let you out for now. I’ll let you out then i’ll put you into a barracuda infested pool of
doom! Muha muhaha muhahaha!” cackled the crazed Sorphfeenia.
With that Sorphfeenia called her two trusted henchmen, Twiddle Dumber and Twiddle
Dumbest. The pudgy thugs plodded down the stairs to Sorphfeenia.
“Huh huh huuuh. What do you want boss lady?” stammered Twiddle Dumber.
“Uhh yea whatcha need boss?” asked Twiddle Dumbest.
“Lower fe prisoners into the baracuda tank. Slowly. If fey resist, shoot fem.”
“Umm. Uhh. Boss we don’s have any shooters.” Twiddle Dumbest pondered.
“Fen beat them instead.” the exasperated Sorfpheenia shouted. With a heavy sigh she continued,
“It’s so hard to find good fugs nowa days,” she muttered under her breath.
With that the dumpy, dimwitted, devilish minions unchained Atomic Andy and his sidekick,
Robo Boy off the wall. Twiddle Dumber lead the two heroes to the barracuda tank.
“Boy this will be tough one to get out of.” announced A. A.
Will the defiant duo escape?
Will Robo Boy ever get Atomic Andy’s respect?
Why does Sorphfeenia speak so oddly?
To find the the answers to these questions and more, check out the next installment of “The
Adventures of Atomic Andy and Robo Boy. Barracuda Love.”
About the Author
Atomic Andy is the awesome author that wrote this epic story. All the events are based on his
real life exploits and adventures. Yes he did do all of this. No he’s not making this up. Atomic
Andy lives on his quiet ranch with his four dogs and his good old buddy, Robo Boy.

Physical Description- Imagine, if you will, the worst symptoms from diseases. Bloating,
pustules, rashes, rot, and inflammation. Then add in the symptoms of radiation poisoning,
burns, patchy hair loss, and glow. For dramatic flair, top it all off with a poor personal hygene.
Gross, huh? That’s what a Rotter is like. They are walking contagons. This is their curse. They
are infected with a wide array of diseases and they happen to be irradiated enough to glow at
night. Otherwise they are pretty normal looking people.

Mental Description- Rotters have a singular attribute that collectively shapes all of their
mentality to be very similar. The Rotters are all incapable of dying of old age. Other sources of
death work just fine on Rotters, just not old age. As such, they all have personalities much like
your grandparents. They idealize the past, hate the present, refer to things you never knew
existed and didn’t mind not knowing about, and they always walked everywhere. The Rotters
are also a little forgetful about the little things. Not enough to make much of a difference, but a
quark they all possess.

Names- With their love for the past, disfigurement, and an unexplained latching onto the
1950’s, Rotters pick cheeky names from science fiction sources. Being so old, they commonly
forget, butcher, and otherwise mangle their names so it could be subject to change at any time.
Some memorable examples are; Buck Starr, Edith Neutrenio, or Evan T. Horizon.

Home- Rotters have an affinity for any pre-plague site, especially diseased or irradiated places.
They love the rustic atmosphere, it reminds them of their younger days, and if it’s the site of a
major toxic waste spill all the better. No more annoying door to door salespeople.

Family Description- Most Rotters enjoy the life of a swinging single. Most people won’t
spend any time in any kind of proximity to a Rotter, let alone enough to form a relationship.
From time to time a group of Rotters will ban together and form a community together in a
wretched land full of toxins and radiation. When a Rotter forms a family, they ironically enough,
form nuclear families of a husband, wife, and 2.5 children. These families last for a while then
disband when the members tire of one another. Or forget where they live.

Reasons for Adventuring- Old age makes you feel tired all the time. Rotters being as old as
the hills feel this more keenly than any others around. Most days they’re content to just watch
the world go by outside the window. Though every once and a while they get the urge to get up
an do something, even if their aching bones say otherwise. So they slowly bring themselves to get
out of the house and do something, anything. Thus they end up earning the maximum money
for the minimum work.

Religion- The idolization of the good ol’ days and everything from the past also extends to the
Rotter’s religion. They are the some of the major members of the Order of the Analogue. They
revere technology devloped and created before the plague. Devices dealing with radiation and
the harnessing of hold a very special place in Rotter’s hearts. Chief among these devices is the
fearsome nuclear weapon, which is hailed the apex of all branches of technology.

Weapons and Armor- When it comes to weapons and armor, Rotters are pack rats. They
hold onto every little weapon or scrap of armor that they ever use. Most maintain at least one
suit and a few weapons, “from their glory days”. These weapons and armor are usually very well
worn, very old, and very well maintained. Rotters take quite a bit of pride in making sure that
the bits from their good ol’ days still function just as well as it did the day it was produced. After
all, they just don’t make it like they used to.

Occupation- Rotters all have a very unique job skill that makes them vital and prevents the
whole strain from being eradicated. They may be disgusting, infectious, and irradiated, but they
can withstand nearly any biological, chemical, or radioactive danger around. Having a very
unique ability like this, the Rotters seek to work in areas that are normally too hazardous to
spend any time in. The jobs they perform in the hazardous areas could be mundane tasks such
as cleaning to advanced scientific processes in less than optimal laboratories.

Strain History- The plague decimated the populations of the world and hamstrung the
governments. Rival governments saw opertunities to settle old rivalries long since seething.
Countries emptied their stockpiles of nuclear and chemical weapons onto one another. Those
with sense and luck hid deep underground in fallout shelters. The world was very lucky in that
the previous estimates were grossly wrong in the mutually assured destruction. The nuclear
weapons did cause great devistation, but most missed or failed to detonate. The survivors who
were safely hidden deep in fallout shelters eventually ventured forth to see what was left of the
world. Many were greeted by a new friend, radiation. Remembering the wonderful side effects
of the syrum, and forgetting it’s disasterous ones, they injected the syrum as soon as they could.
The end result is a genetic strain that is perpetually wracked by disease, chemical weapon effects,
and radiation side effects for the whole of their lives. As the remains of the world became more
and more violent, the Rotters used their special abilities to survive inhospital conditions and have
kept that part of the job market all theirs.

Mutations- Preserved (54), rotted flesh (66) , passage of death (74), absent minded (79),
glows (84).

Other Bonuses- +1 to Stored, Immune to Radiation.

Other Negatives- -2 from Skin, -1 from Actions.

Sinects
Lab Report 1-216-198-3
Submitted by Eigh Ix.
Object 37251- Device is approx. 6” x 1.5” x 2”. Object is composed of a hard plastic
outer shell with delicate silicone circuit boards, small motors, and electronic components inside.
Device is portable audio replaying device (see Walkman). Disassembled and inspected
components. Circuitry is inoperative due to sharp, blunt impacts. Motor units are functional
and were removed and submitted to main storage. Remaining components disposed of.
Personal Comments- Next time don’t play hackie sack with the loot guys. I mean if you are that
desperate to be entertained, there’s always plenty of gear to log, catalogue, repair, and maintain
down here.
Object 37252- Device is approx. 52” x 2.25” x 6”. Object is mostly composed of steel
with some plastic rubber on the extremities of the “handles.” Long 2” steel pipe with vice grip
pliers ⅓ the distance from the capped side. One side of pipe is capped with a modified steel pipe
cap. Pipe cap has heavy spring attached with cut nail attached to spring. Inside pipe, secured by
the cap was a 12 gauge shotgun shel (live, heavily reloaded). Shell was submitted to the armory.
Remaining components submitted to shop’s supply.
Personal Comments- It’s a fucking pipe rifle! Stupid inbred retards. I played with better toys as
a baby. GET OVER IT!!!
Object 37253- Object is approx. 3” x 2” x 1”. Object is composed of burlap fabric with
hair on the top, moss innards and charcoal markings on the surface. Small hand stitched
humanoid doll. Hair looks to be real human? Innards are unconfirmed composition. Details
(face, fingers, etc) painted with what appears to be charcoal.
Personal Comments- Cute doll, if not a little creepy. Considered giving doll to one of the
compound’s children, but thought better of it and disposed of it. Why is it everything those
Wretched make is inherently creepy?
Object 37254- Object is approx. 67” x 35” x 28”. Object is composed of many metals.
Exact composition is unknown as of yet pending further investigation. Large, heavily tarnished
box-like shape. Appears to be a heavily cannibalized car engine. It would look to have been
converted into a generator of sorts. Initial inspection shows that the engine block is fused
together, rendering it useless. There may be salvageable material.
Personal Comments- It’s fucked. The block is one fused lump of steel, all the gaskets are
cracked or broken, wiring is half melted, and it’s got a dozen bullet holes and a trophy arrow
lodged in it. Nice work boys. Real nice.
Object 37255- Object is approx. 13” x 3” x 3”. Object is composed of clear, high
quality, tempered glass. Tall glass tube with flat base. Tube has markings in equal spacing up the
sides and numbers correspond with the lines. Glass appears to be without cracks, flaws, or
imperfections. Retained for lab use.
Personal Comments- A real tool! I can’t believe these primates brought back an unbroken
graduated cylinder. I can’t wait to use it!

Physical Description- Sinects look like oversized bugs. They have hardened and pearlescant
shells instead of normal skin. The shell has the look of a pearl, in that the it has a primary color
as the majority of the color, with wisps of secondary colors snaking through out the shell. This
shell is also hard enough to protect the Sinect from a fair deal of damage. As if the shell wasn’t
enough, they have extra limbs attached at the back of their rib cage. The extra limbs numbers
vary from 1 to 10 and may be less than an even number due to limb loss. The extra limbs are
very similar to the Sinects normal arms, except instead of hands the limb has a single long
“finger” that is about the size of a hand with two small “fingers” coming off the side. This allows
very rudementary use of the limb, but no fine motor skills. To go with all these extra limbs, the
Sinects also have extra eyes arrayed out on the top and front of the character’s head. The
number of eyes range also from 1 to 10 thanks to all those games that the Sinect’s parents said,
“Will put your eye out!”. The extra eyes are fully functioning with the eye color being the same
for all the eyes. The final physical characteristic of Sinects isn’t much of an outward appearance,
but a personality quark all share. Sinects are fidgety and have a lot of trouble staying still, even
while they sleep. They try their best, but if they’re not busy doing some kind of work or activity
they start fidgeting and getting themselves in trouble.

Mental Description- As previously mentioned, the Sinects are all very fidgety. If they’re not
doing something a this very exact second, then they become bored. When they’re bored, they
can get themselves into a lot of trouble by coming up with and performing fiddling with things
that they really shouldn’t fiddle with. Sinects also become grumpy when not actively engaged in
some activity that keeps them occupied. While occupied they are perfectly friendly and kind.
Even despite massive work loads and unrealistic deadlines hovering.

Names- Sinects live in large families. These families typically end up with very large numbers of
children, parents, grand parents, cousins, aunts, uncles, best friends, and anyone else that wishes
to, all living together. As such Sinect parents ran out of ideas for children’s names. Thus began
the Sinect practice of naming their children after some sort of numbering system to keep track of
how many there really were. As such most Sinects have names that are numbers, military ranks,
or even serial numbers. A good example of those are, X13-14J and Iye Ecks.

Home- To accomidate such large families and family groups, the Sinects all get together in huge
buildings that they take over as a community. Warehouses, airplane hangers, and factories make
good locations for Sinect hives. These hives will have some sort of personally rigged dividers to
seperate the families from one another and allow a little privacy for the inhabitatants.

Family Description- Sinects have very large families. It’s not that they are particularly fertile
or prolific about breeding, they just end up with large immediate families. That combined with
their love to keep their extended families together as on cohesive unit, lead to the Sinects forming
“hives” to live together in. The hives are a misnomer in that there is no central hive queen or
sinister hive intelligence. The Sinects are all indepentent people very capable of making their
own decisions. As such the Sinects all grow up with very strong ties to their hive and are safe in
there is always a friendly place for them to run if things go poorly.
Reasons for Adventeruring- The huge hives require lots of food, water, building materials,
and a ton of odds and ends to entertain everyone. These things are not free. So to pay for and
aquire these things Sinects send lucky members of their hive get to go out into the world and
provide for their family. Selection of the lucky ones is volunteers first and that failing, the hive
will have a randomized selection process.

Religion- Sinects aren’t a particularly religious strain. They are typically more concerned about
providing enough for their families, surviving the dangers of the world, and maybe even finding a
little time to entertain themselves. The process of dissassembling, repairing, and recreating
mechanical devices soothes their scattered brains and gives them something to focus on. That
being said, given their technical prowess, a slight majority of Sinects find themselves in the
technological cult of the Order of the Analogue. Those not with the Order of the Analogue
simply find themselves surviving day to day without any thoughts or concerns about religion
though.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Most often finding themselves in a machine shop, Sinects will
draw their weapons and armor from the tools they use daily. When lacking, or perhaps looking
to upgrade, they will sneak time in the sophisticated shops and produce upgrades themselves.
With their own six hands. While they may not always produce “conventional” arms and armor,
Sinect devices are prized by those who understand the skill and prowess that the Sinects possess.

Usual Occupation- With their extra limbs and inability to remain still, Sinects find themselves
very comfortable and happy in positions of laborers and mechanics. Analyzing the way that a
device fits together, crafting a complex device from scratch, assembling hundreds of delicate and
detailed devices all works wonders to keep a Sinect’s wandering mind occupied.

Strain History- Rumors are a funny thing. They can make people do very redicilious things
under mistaken ideas and theories. Such is the source of the Sinects. As the plague ravashed the
world, there was a brief rumor, before the Syrum was released, that consuming specific insects
would provide immunity to the plague. Desperation ensued and many people devoured huge
numbers of creepy crawlers. Alas it didn’t work. Unhindered by this, people continued to eat
those bugs right until they recieved their warping injection of the Syrum. Thus was born the
Sinects.

Mutations- Extra limbs (9), exoskeleton (24) , adhesion (65), extra eyes (67), wiry (91) .

Other Bonuses- +1 to Bones, +2 to Initiative

Other Negatives- -2 from Stored, -1 from Metabolism

Wretched
The following are some hints to help you break those particularly stubborn subjects. The advice
will be broken down based upon different strains owing to the different techniques required for
each strain.
Amoebas- Separate them from all other people and let them simmer a while. Without their little
helpers they themselves become helpless. Yet in some cases they have become somewhat
independent. In that case allow them the company of mirrors. The more the better. You’ll
know that they’re ready when they become quiet and stop threatening you.
Boars- Some of the toughest to crack. Unleash your most vile, despicable, underhanded skills on
them. Anything you would be afraid to let lose for moral reasons, do it. Be unrelenting and hope
that it is enough to crack them. Otherwise you will only harden their resolve.
‘Bots- Easiest way is to throw coin at them. Mercenaries to the last their only real lasting
commitment is to the almighty coin. That not being particularly fun nor cost effective, try using
water torture combined with a little electrocution. They despise water and the electrocution they
thankfully supply themselves.
Brains- Apply pain after building up the threat of pain. Before long they’ll sing their whole life
story. Be warned, push them too hard they’ll tell you anything they think will make you stop
hurting them. Learn to recognize the beginning of this and it will vastly improve your
interrogation of anyone.
Dryads- They must share a common thread with the rest of the forest. Fire and anything that
scalds them work wonders to loosen their tongues. Just go to work on them with a pair of pliers
and a blow torch.
Freaks- Remove their piercings one by one to get them warmed up. Then work on breaking
small frivolous bones, such as fingers and toes. Be warned, their secretions will gum up your best
tools, so be sure to remove it as it secretes.
Immune- Work on perfecting your classic techniques on these simpletons. Anything you need to
practice. They resist little and are easy to break. So no particular method is better than any
other.
Leathernecks- Impossible to break through physical pain. They are so resolved that it will only
serve to strengthen their resolve. The way to break them is to assault their minds and dogma.
Break their fragile minds or defile their twisted dogma and they will cry their sorrows and secrets
to you like you’re some kind bar tender that actually cares.
Red Herrings- Increase the temperature slowly, yet not so slowly that they do not notice. You
wouldn’t want them to miss out on the fun. Then let the temperature remain at the point where
their brains bake in their skulls. Watch for hallucinations and that will indicate the proper
temperature. They will tell you exactly when they’re ready to talk.
Rotters- By far the most unique strain. Simply place them in a room with an immune and let
their self loathing do the rest. It’s really simply too easy to worry about even claim credit for.
Sinects- Slowly crack their shells from the extremities inward. The breaking point is usually
around the thighs.
Fellow Wretched- Good luck to anyone who has to interrogate one of us. Unless you can find
that very personal chink in their armor, forget any hope in cracking them. Run through the
whole of your abilities and be sure to take your time. even if it takes you years to do it all.

Physical Description- The Wretched are a very unlucky strain. That’s even compaired to the
other strains. If you look hard enough one can find a rhyme or reason for each of the other
strains. The wretched aren’t so lucky. When the first Wretched took the syrum, something just
didn’t quite feel right. Before they knew it they had flailed in pain to such an extent that the
Wretched had snapped their own bones like twigs. The worst part is these injuries should have
killed them, yet they had a newfound regenerative bonus. Those two factors combined to give
the Wretched the unmistakable visage of twisted and broken husks. No two Wretched look
exactly the same, yet they are all very easily identifiable because of their warped limbs and
constant leer.

Family Description- None will deny that the Wretched are nasty folks, not even the Wretched
themselves. So when their family structure is described it shouldn’t be a surprise that the family
structure is nearly nonexistent. Procreation between the Wretched is a violent and nasty affair
with most not surviving the ordeal without physical or mental scars. Many die from the act and
it’s violent Wretched perpetrator. This factor would surely mean the end of the Wretched in no
time at all if not for a singular facet to the Wretched. They are the only strain that has their
reproductive system effected heavily by the syrum. The Wretched are blessed and cursed by
extreme fertility. It is not unusual for a Wretched to spawn 3 to 4 children per pregnancy.
Dreadful for the mother to be the infant Wretched are just as mean and bitter as the parents are
and will turn on the parent without a moment’s hesitation.

Mental Description- Given all of the pain that a Wretched has to deal with on a day to day
basis, they aren’t too friendly. Imagine, if you will, the worst body aches you’ve ever had. Like
the feeling of going 12 rounds with a prize fighter. Then add a skull splitting headache. The
kind of headache that makes you consider drilling a hole in your skull to relieve the pressure.
Now imagine this kind of pain being a good day for you. That is a sample of a Wretched’s life.
They discover very quickly that the only way to dull the pain is to inflict similar pain on others.
Be it with saber keen wit, the frenzy of combat, or just good ol’ torture. The Wretched all very
quickly become very mean and brooding characters that have little room for any other
annoyances in their lives. They are full of piss and vinegar and very little, if any, kindness is very
well hidden from the world.

Names- The common array of bone distortion among the Wretched also extends to their
mouthes. Jaws huge and gaping, pallets cleft six different ways, oversized and snaggled teeth are
some of the very common problems that Wretched face. Thanks to these troubles the
Wretched’s names are long strings of nearly impernouncable letters, such as Irglabegonan,
Grothaur, Mingl.

Home- With their tempermet, it’s no wonder that Wretched find it difficult to live in cities.
They either find their neighbors nigh unbearable or their neighbors find them nigh unbearable.
As such most Wretched just cut out the painful discovery of this and retreat to isolated hide-aways.
They like the solitude and quiet that a place away from the world can provide. These
holes can be elaborate places with many layers of traps and defenses to ward off unwelcomed
visitors. These traps are of the nonlethal sort with exception being near what the Wretched
considers their most important areas like prisoner detainment and their own personal living
space.

Religion- If the Wretched do decide to worship any religion, and heaven knows you can’t force
a Wretched to do anything they don’t want to, it is almost universally a form of pre plague
religion seeped in evil and counter culture. Such as the Born Again Satanists. That is not to say
that there aren’t atheistic Wretched. They mostly prefer to worship dieties that are as evil as they
think themselves.

Reasons for Adventuring- Many Wretched find that if you hurt others, it eases your pain.
Any ease no matter how tiny is a ray of sunshine in the dismal Wretched’s life. They also
discover that most people won’t stick around to be abused. So they have to strike out into the
world to attempt to find willing or even unwilling targets. With all of the unpleasantness going
on in the world, there is a great demand for people who can murder, maim, torture, and
generally make lives unpleasant. Why do what you love to do for free, when you can make
money at it? So the Wretched strike off into the world looking to inflict some pain and make
some money while they’re at it.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Part of the great joy of agonizing their fellow man is the fear of
what is to come. This is the Wretched’s finest wine. The fear that their unlucky target feels
dwelling on what rumors they have heard, imaging the worst that their minds can come up with,
and building the raw terror that sits heavy in their gut is savored by all Wretched. To heighten
this initial fear before any hand is laid upon flesh, the Wretched dress and brandish only the most
terrifying outfits and weapons. Human skins and bones, ancient pagan symbols, wickedly curved
blades, all manner of medical device, even self inflicted wounds are employed to heighten this
fear. Anything that also serves a use other than thearactical dressing is highly desired.

Usual Occupation- If it wasn’t already appearant, Wretched find themselves employed with
various unsavory types doing unspeakable things. They find nitches as interrogators, torturers,
and general meanies. Any job that pays and grants them the privilage of hurting others is
welcomed with open arms by the Wretched.

Strain History- The syrum caused terrific things to happen to those who took it. It healed
wounds, cured diseases, and saved lives. It also turned out to be cursed. It sundered human’s
genetic code with little respect to what was once “normal”. The strain that understands the
horrible effects of the syrum best would be the Wretched. From the second the syrum entered
their veins, it was as though ice water flew screaming through their bodies. Invariably the
screaming would start shortly after all the syrum was injected. Then shortly afterward the wild
flailing would set in. The Wretched would roll around on the ground with such furvor that their
bones would snap like chicken bones. The torment of agonizing pain wasn’t enough for the
unlucky Wretched. As they danced a jig of misery their bones would heal at an astonishing rate.
While it may seem like a blessing, these broken bones didn’t have the time to be set properly, as
such arms were bent at un-natural angles fingers extended to horrid lengths, shattered teeth
splintered into new individual fangs. Those who’s strength of will survived the first 24 hours
were rewarded with a lifetime of aching pain and twisted bodies. Thus began the legacy of great
anger and hatred that all Wretched actively participate in.

Mutations- Cancerous (4), elongated limbs (5), solid ribcage (13), abnormally shaped bones
(23), double jointed (90).

Other Bonuses- +2 to Tendons, +1 to Initiative.

Other Negatives- -2 from Skin, -1 from Base Flesh.

Character Creation
Physical description is the next step. Mechanically, it’s useless, but it helps make your characters
a little more personal. The fields are (and not limited to)...
Height- How tall your character is. Are you a towering figure? Or perhaps a short and sly
person.
Weight- How much your character weighs. Is your character as thin and delicate as a
snowflake, or are they tough and meaty?
Eye Color- What color your character’s eyes are. Are they both the same color? Do you have
both eyes? Are your pupils an abnormal shape?
Hair Color- What color your hair is. Is it natural? Do you dye it? If so, what do you use as a
dye?
Hair Style- What the general style of your hair is. Is it a mass of tangles? Or is it always the
picture of perfection? Is it long and full of split ends, or is it short and well trimmed?
Cleanliness- How clean your character tries to keep herself. Do you bathe as often as humanly
possible? Or do you much rather prefer that certain, unclean musk?
Scars- What scars your character possess that are easily noticed. Are you a clean slate? Or do
your scars tell a tale of pain and abuse?
And finally, if you are so inclined, go ahead and write up a quick background on your fellow,
along with a name.
Now for the mechanics of making a character.

Attributes
Attributes are a mechanical way of representing a character’s natural self. Like all traits on a
person, given enough time and work, you may improve them as high as you wish. The attributes
of a given player are divided up into two categories. Mental which is the domain of the mind,
psyche and other feats of that wonderful gray matter. Physical which is the domain of the body
and all of it’s limitations and possibilities.

Mental
Abstract is the measure of your ability to come up with new and original ideas. Such as
figuring out a plan of action for a siege, or maybe just deciding where a good place to eat is. Also
includes the ability to bullshit without appearing to be doing as such.
Learnable is the measure of how well you can learn new things. If you are the kind of person
whom picks up things quickly, this is for you. If it takes you a little longer than normal, or you
just really prefer to work for a long time on how to do something then perhaps this isn’t for you.
Senses is the attribute that encompasses all five of your senses. It is the average of all of your
senses, for simplicity sake they are lumped into one attribute. You may have one or more
dominant sense, and one or more impaired sense, but this represents the your general awareness
of the world around you.

Stored is the measure of the information that you have in your head. If the stat is low, you are
not stupid, you just don’t know too many facts about things. The higher it is, the more your brain
resembles a library.

Sub-Conscience is the measure of your instinct and intuition. It is the other part of your brain
(the one you don’t think about too much) and it represents gut feelings and intuition that a
character may have. It’s main use is to be used by players who are stuck and need help with what
to do next.

Physical
Bones are the things that keep you up. It is a measure of how much of a pounding you can take
before it’s time for your dirt-nap. This is the only attribute that deals with the amount of damage
your character can actually take before they become DOA.

Metabolism is your digestive system. It is a measure of how quickly your body and mind can
adapt and improve itself. If you are constantly evolving and becoming stronger, smarter, and
faster, then this is for you. If your body is as unchanging and steady as a mountain, then seek
another attribute perhaps.

Muscles are the things that make you move. It is a measure of your strength and shows how
much you can lift, carry, smash, and how much you hurt in melee combat. Macho buff men are
rolling in this attribute. Puny little girlie men seek to place they attributes elsewhere.

Skin is what people notice first when they look at you. It represents your general appearance
and how attractive you may appear to other people. Just remember, beauty is in the eye of the
beholder.

Tendons are what help your muscles move. It is a measure of your general dexterity. It shows
how steady your hands are, how fast they are, and how good your reactions are. If you can
dodge, dip, duck, and dive, then this is your attribute. If not, then move along.

So there is the brief description of your attributes. Next is assigning values to them.
Every player’s character is given 30 points to distribute among all of her attributes. Every
attribute must be no less than 1 point, and no more than 5 points when you assign your
character’s attributes. Mutations could quite possibly raise an attribute above this number, so the
rule is discarded after the allotment are assigned. After a character is created and the game
starts, the character may raise any of their attributes above 5 points, up to a maximum of 10
points. A character will never have an attribute that goes lower than 1 point, ever. If anything
does happen to alter a character’s attribute below 1 point, then the attribute remains at 1 point
until the character spends experience to improve it.

Equivalent Attributes
Now that you know what your attributes are, you want to see how you compare to the rest of the
world. Here’s a chart that helps you with just that.

Equivalent Attributes
1- Horrible- This is absolutely not one of your best points. It is as low as humanly (and
inhumanly) possible. It might just be something that you may want to work on when you get
some time on your hands.
2- Average Joe- You are about the same as most other people. You don’t stand out in the
crowd in whatever attribute. You aren’t horrible with it and you won’t win much of anything for
it.
3- Average Champion- You are beginning to stand outside of the crowd. You are better than
the next person, but when it comes to most adventurers and villains though you are just so-so.
5- Great Champion- You are starting to become better at this. You have either gotten lucky,
or you have been working to get this good for a long time. Either way, you stand out from the
“run of the mill” person. Keep up the good work.
Character Creation
67
7- Epic Champion- You are incredible. Stories about you are told to children, to fill them
with a sense of wonder, or dread. that is up to your actions. But regardless, many know of your
greatness, and give you your due respect (or fear).
10- Demigod- You are the greatest around. The ones that are up here with you, you could
probably count on both hands. You have a notorious reputation of heroism, or terror that
follows you where ever you travel.

Mutations
Now that you know what you want your attributes to be, you can go about modifying them by
your character’s stable genetic strain. Each strain gets specific bonuses and negatives for their
special differences. So find your stable genetic strain and add the bonuses, but subtract the
negatives. When you’re done with that, look up the individual mutations and total up the
bonuses for those as well.
It should be noted that if a character is to receive conflicting mutations during creation or even
over the course of their adventures, they do not receive both of them. In the case of two or more
conflicting mutations, such as receiving Plastic skin as well as Leaden skin, the most recent
mutation overrides the previous mutations.

Amoebas
Mutations- Allergies (34), plastic skin (35) , silicone flesh (36), overactive stomach acid
production (77), lethargic (92).
Other Bonuses- +1 to Abstract, +4 Base Flesh
Other Negatives- -1 from Tendons, -2 Initiative

Boars
Mutations- Snout (14), curly tail (15) , pigskin (39), dwarfism (52), overactive digestion (55).
Other Bonuses- +30 to Blunt Absorb, +20 to Laceration Absorb.
Other Negatives- -1 from Learnable, -1 from Stored.

‘Bots
Mutations- Metallic bones (21), leaden skin (25) , natural battery (51), mechanical limb (76),
receives radio waves (85).
Other Bonuses- +1 to Muscles, +2 to Bones.
Other Negatives- -2 from Sub-conscience, -1 from Abstract.

Brains
Mutations- Uncovered brain (12), abnormally large head (27), inherited memories (56),
nearsighted (80), lethargic (92).
Other Bonuses- +2 to Stored, +1 to Abstract.
Other Negatives- -2 from Muscles, -1 from Bones.

Dryads
Mutations- Elongated limbs (5), leaves and bark (19), poisonous blood (42),
altered perception (59), photosynthesis (61).
Other Bonuses- +1 to Sub-conscience, double life span.
Other Negatives- -2 from Metabolism, -1 from Initiative.

Freaks
Mutations- Tinted skin (37), breath smoke (44) , extra fingers (50), hardened secretions (69),
hemophiliac (70).
Other Bonuses- +2 to Skin, +1 to Stored.
Other Negatives- -1 from Base Flesh, -1 from Muscles.

Immune
Mutations- None.
Other Bonuses- None.
Other Negatives- None.

Leathernecks
Mutations- Hoofed feet (6), horns (11) , leathery hide (40), gigantic (53), extra stomachs (60).
Other Bonuses- +2 to Metabolism, +1 to Skin.
Other Negatives- -2 from Learnable, -1 from Abstract.

Randoms
Mutations- Randoms have 1d10 mutations at creation that are rolled for randomly, of course.
Other Bonuses- None.
Other Negatives- None.

Red Herrings
Mutations- Webbed hands and feet (7), gills (17) , fish eyes (18), scales (41),
no sweat glands (47).
Other Bonuses- +2 to Muscles, +15 to Blunt Absorb
Other Negatives- -1 from Bones, -1 from Initiative

Rotters
Mutations- Preserved (54), rotted flesh (66) , passage of death (74), absent minded (79),
glows (84).
Other Bonuses- +1 to Stored, Immune to Radiation.
Other Negatives- -2 from Skin, -1 from Actions.

Sinects
Mutations- Extra limbs (9), exoskeleton (24) , adhesion (65), extra eyes (67), wiry (91) .
Other Bonuses- +1 to Bones, +2 to Initiative
Other Negatives- -2 from Stored, -1 from Metabolism

Wretched
Mutations- Cancerous (4), elongated limbs (5), solid ribcage (13), abnormally shaped bones
(23), double jointed (90).
Other Bonuses- +2 to Tendons, +1 to Initiative.
Other Negatives- -2 from Skin, -1 from Base Flesh.

To help illustrate how to make a character, we’ll go over the creation of Example Joe. At first glance he thinks that
he wants to roll up an Immune. Upon further reading he discovers that he in fact does not. Being downtrodden and
less than second class isn’t really Joe’s style. So upon even more reading he settles upon the Freaks. They’re fashon
sense makes sense to him. So he takes a fresh character sheet and begins to fill the Physical Description of his
character. After much thought and work the top of his sheet looks similar to this.

Name- Example Joe Player- Me
Sex- It’s a boy!
Age- 24
Height- Tallish
Weight- I’m not fat!
Cleanliness- I don’t smell too terrible
Scars- Hard to say with all the tats.
Hair Color- Black Hair Style- Mohawk, what else?
Eye Color- Green Tattoos/Piercings- Too many for this little space
Birth Region- huh? Stable Genetic Line- Freak
Next Example Joe debates for a long while about his attributes. He doesn’t want to mess things up this early in his
character creation. After much thought Joe finally decides to split his points evenly between his brains and his
brawn. When it comes down to it his Attributes look thusly.
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 2       Bones- 5
Learnable- 4      Metabolism- 1
Senses- 1         Muscles- 3
Stored- 3         Skin- 4
Sub Conscience- 5 Tendons- 2

Joe’s thinking with his attributes is he’d like a character that is tough and a bit smart. That way he can survive
longer and he can rely on the character’s own knowledge since this is his first character and he doesn’t know much
about the world. After working so hard to make his attributes perfect, Joe realizes that he must now modify them
thanks to him being a Freak. After much dread this is what his attributes look like.

Mental            Physical
Abstract- 1       Bones- 5
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 1
Senses- 1         Muscles- 3
Stored- 4         Skin- 5
Sub Conscience- 5 Tendons- 2

So now Joe is a bit dumber, yet very good looking. The next step for him is the derived attributes

Derived Attributes
Next up since you have the attributes and mutations done, are the derived statistics. They are a
little complex at first, but require little adjustment after you make your character.
Base Flesh is used only to determine the amount of flesh that each part of your character has.
It is derived from...

Base Flesh- Bones
Locational Flesh is the amount of damage any part of your body can handle before it dies,
and when it dies, you are probably not too far away. It goes as such...
Head- Base Flesh x2
Arms- Base Flesh x5
Body- Base Flesh x20
Legs- Base Flesh x10

Combat Training- What kind of training your character has gotten in the ways of attacking.
This could come from ancient kung fu masters, hardened drill instructors, or even a diploma
from schools of hard knocks. More information on some of the possible combat training styles
can be found after the skill descriptions.
Combat Training- Untrained, Boxing, Knife Fighting, Primitive, Football, Action
Movies, Military, or myth-maker’s discretion.

Melee Damage- The amount of damage you can do to a person with fists, and can be
augmented by melee weapons. Melee Damage has a minimum value of 1d10. The value is the
number of d10’s rolled per melee attack, not a base number rolled at character creation. It
equals...
1 - 3 Muscles - 1d10 Melee Damage
4 - 7 Muscles- 2d10 Melee Damage
8 - 10 Muscles- 3d10 Melee Damage

Initiative- The place in the order of combat that your character takes. This derived attribute
shows how much of a quick draw your character is. It is determined by...
Initiative- Senses

Actions- How many things you can do in one turn of combat. There is a minimum of one
action for any character. It is....
Actions- Tendons

Punch- How much damage your character can do if she decides to use their fist to do the
talking. Punch damage equals…
Punch- Melee Damage

Kick- What kind of pain you inflict when you break out your feet of fury. Kicking damage
inflicts…
Kick- Melee Damage +1d10

Grapple- This is the life you can squeeze out of a person if you so choose. This is an attack
who’s damage is only adjusted by the addition of spiney mutations or clothing. Your hugs
cause…
Grapple- No damage unless you possess a mutation or addition to your armor that
specifies otherwise.

KO- KO is knocking someone out. Sending them to the sandman personally. Forcing nap time
on them. It does a small amount of damage to knock someone out, so be careful not to over do
it.
KO- 1d10

Blunt Resistance- Someone laying the smack on you? Blunt resistance is what will keep you
from taking a dirt nap. It is your character’s natural armor against attacks of the bunt damage
variety. For example, punches, kicks, flying chairs, speeding cars, or falling team mates. Blunt
resistance is increased by mutations. Your natural blunt resistance is added to your armor to
protect your squishey flesh points.
Blunt- 0

Disease Resistance- The natural strength your character’s body has when it is faced with
outside forces inside. It’s a measure your body’s resistance to diseases, sickness, poisons, toxins,
and radiation. This attribute begins the same for all characters and can be increased or
decreased by mutations, nasty diseases, smoking, or other mysterious sources.
Disease- 45

Laceration Resistance- Hack and slash protection. This resistance will protect you from cuts,
scrapes, slashes, and nicks. Examples of laceration style damage include, saber cuts, road rash,
and shaving mishaps. Every character begins with a measly 0 for this attribute. Various
mutations will increase this attribute to keep you alive. The laceration resistance enhances your
character’s armor for the purpose of laceration protection.
Laceration- 0

Piercing Resistance- This has little to do with body jewelry and/or the implantation of it.
This kind of piercing is the much more painful type, such as gunshots, flying arrows, impailments
by pike, and harpoon mistakes. Only mutations can improve your character’s natural piercing
resistance. Luckily armor can protect you from piercing damage, and your mutations can only
enhance it even further.
Piercing- 0

Total Experience- Not an immersive 3D world, but the total of your character’s experience in
this world. As you adventure, mishap, fight, run, live, and love you gain experience. It’s a way to
represent how much your character has grown and matured over the course of her life. Total
experience can never go down, unless you get amnesia or get on a soap opera, only up. This
number is only for compairison to other characters to see how skilled you are. A brief
explination of what to do with your experience can be found after the combat training section,
and an in depth description of experience can be found in the rules section.

Total- Earn this yourself in the course of the game
Available Experience- This is the amount of experience your character has available to
improve herself. Experience is spent on combat training during character creation and/or
improving your character’s skills or attributes. After creation a character must earn their combat
training in other ways, and can no longer purchase it with experience.
Available- 1,000 to begin with

First Impression- Do you look like you came in dead last in a shovel fight? Can you make
dogs wimpier just by looking at them? Or perhaps you make the angels themselves weep with joy
for your face. Well your physical appearance has everything to do with what people first think
about. Your first impression can really shoot you in the foot, or save your candy ass. So here’s
the first impressions.
1-2 Skin- Disgust. You are so ugly your presence curdles milk. Good luck making
friends.
3-4 Skin- Neutral. You’re normal. Congrats, you blend in with the rest of the world.
5-6 Skin- Attraction. You are pretty good looking. If it wasn’t for that nasty scar
though...
7-8 Skin- Adoration. Few can tell you, “No”. Even fewer can survive your charms.
10 Skin- Worship. People fall to their knees at your feet. Have fun with the psycho
stalkers.

Skill Price- Some people can pick up a skill or trade at the drop of a hat. Other people need to
have everything beaten into their skulls until they figure it out. To represent this each character
pays a specific amount of experience to improve any of their skills. It is determined thus...
Skill Price- 20 - Learnable in Experience

Attribute Price- Making your body improve itself above it’s normal limits is a very difficult
thing. Some people are able to push their bodies harder and reach beyond their limits with a
little less effort than others. To represent that, the cost for improving a character’s attributes
varies. Read on to find out how.
Attribute Price- 1,000 - (Metabolism x50) in Experience

Minimum Skill Level- Everyone is able to bullshit their way through what they know and
succeed at least once or twice in their lives. Characters have all skills under this amount
automatically raised to this value. It does not add to any skills over this amount. It is equal to...
Minimum Skill- Abstract %

Maximum Skill Level- After a certain point characters just can’t learn anything else about
what they know. When any of their skills reaches this amount they can not increase it anymore,
unless they raise this value first. It is equal to...
Maximum Skill- Stored x20 %

Now our friend Example Joe begins the process of filling in his derived attributes. It takes a little bit and some
though, but he ends up with his derived attributes. And they look like this.

Combat Statistics   Damage Resistances  Flesh
Combat Training-    Blunt- 0            Base Flesh- 5
Melee Damage- 1d10  Disease- 45%        Head- 10
Initiative- 2       Laceration- 0       Left Arm- 25
Actions- 2          Piercing- 0         Right Arm- 25
Punch- 1d10         Kick- 2d10          Body- 200
Grapple- 0          KO- 1d10            Left Leg- 50
                                        Right Leg- 50
                                        
Mutations - Tinted skin, breath smoke, extra fingers, hardened secretions, hemophiliac 
Skill Price- 18 
Attribute Price- 950
Experience Available- 1k
Total- 1k
Minimum Skill- 1%
Maximum Skill- 80%

Background
With that confusing business over with, now you can figure out where your character came from.
Every character must roll on the following tables to determine the size and technology of the
region that they came from. Also, where they came from effects how much money they start off
with as well as what their skills start out at.

Region Type
1% - 10% Technological Stronghold- This is a place that is founded upon the ruins of a
scientific building, or worse, a military base. Regardless of where it is, it has access to a heap of
technological goodies.
Starting money- 3d10 x 500

11% - 20% Advanced City- This is a city that is near a dead city. Due to what ever reasons
though, it is not in the dead city. Being so close to a dead city, it wasn’t too difficult for people to
get the electricity and water to flow, and it looks pretty similar to what most think of when big
cities are mentioned.
Starting money- 1d10 x 450

21% - 30% Trade City- This is an area that is at the crossroads of major traveling lanes.
Being such a good location, a great and many people pass through this area. Most that stay earn
their keep by trading what ever goods they may find.
Starting money- 2d10 x 250

31% - 40% Rebuilt City- This is a city that was built upon the skeleton of a former city. It
will never quite the same, and never quite rid of the stench of decay. They are still better than
the other alternatives. The ruins that they are built upon hold untold and unfound treasures.
Starting money- 4d10 x 100

41% - 50% Feudal City- This is an area that is claimed by a powerful ruler. If the ruler uses
words, or weapons to keep this power is their choice. The structure and the technology closely
resembles a medieval city. The castle may be a preexisting tower of steel and glass, or one made
of stone and tin, but there is almost always one in cities such as this, where the ruler looks down
upon their population.
Starting money- 2d10 x 100

51% - 60% Marauder Camp- This is a group of people whom are taking a break between
pillages to rest, count their loot, and lick their wounds. The power depends on the ruler of the
camp and their strength. Their technology depends on their latest excursion.
Starting money- 5d10 x 50

61% - 70% Dirt City- This is a city that tries it’s hardest to be a real city, just like the big ones.
Unluckily it can’t get off the ground. So it sits, not quite a slum, but not quite a city. These are
usually very quiet, peaceful, and a great place to settle down.
Starting money- 3d10 x 50

71% - 80% Wilderness City- This city is but a few mere huts made of local materials and is
usually deep in woods, or some form of local wilderness. People come here to disappear, and
lose themselves. Being in the wild, most supplies are made from what ever is available, not
purchased.
Starting money- 5d10 x 10

81% - 90% Dead City- This is the skeleton of a long lost city that crumbled during the
plague, anarchy, or the power struggle. Regardless of how it fell, it fell quite hard. Never to
become whole again. It’s only townsfolk are adventure seekers, treasure hunters, and sometimes
people hiding away from the world.
Starting money- 3d10 x 50

91% - 100% Wild- This is just a single hut, teepee, or cave in the woods. All by your self, what
ever you may have, you found in the local area. It’s tough living by yourself, but nobody tells you
what to do.
Starting money- 3d10 x 10

Having done all that, you may now figure out what your skill percentages are. Your skills are
based on which region your character started off from.
Back with our friend, Example Joe, he takes a pair of dice and rolls them to see where he’s coming from. The first
die, which he selected to be the tens, comes up with a 7. So he’s got a seventy-something. The second die, which
was naturally ones comes up as 0. This gives Joe a 70 for his starting location. Consulting the chart he discovers
that he is from a dirt city. He must have grown up in a small suburb of some sort. Example then sees that he gets
to roll 3 dice, add them up, then multiply the total by 50. He rolls a 3, 5, and a 0 again. Adding the dice up he
gets 8 (the 0 counts as a zero). He then multiplies 8 by 50 to get a grand total of 400 coin to start with.

Skill Chart
This is a chart with the levels of skills for a character. After you roll for your region then you
assign your skill percentages based on the following chart. After that certain attribute bonuses
add to your skill.
Skill Technological Stronghold, Advanced City Trade City, Rebuilt City Feudal City, Marauder Camp Dirt City, Wild City Dead City, Wild
Swim 10% 20% 30% 50% 60%
Drive 35% 25% 15% 5% 0%
Domestics 25% 25% 5% 60% 20%
Construction 20% 25% 20% 30% 20%
Survival 15% 20% 25% 30% 60%
Tinkering 40% 20% 25% 20% 5%
Smithing 0% 5% 45% 30% 10%
Prowl 20% 30% 40% 20% 50%
Lock pick 30% 35% 10% 10% 40%
Theft 15% 15% 15% 15% 15%
Dodge 25% 30% 35% 25% 45%
Unarmed 20% 45% 60% 30% 55%
Small Melee Weapons 10% 25% 50% 30% 45%
Large Melee Weapons 5% 15% 40% 20% 35%
Exotic Melee Weapons 0% 5% 30% 10% 25%
Throw 10% 30% 50% 30% 45%
Archery 20% 25% 45% 25% 25%
Pistols 20% 10% 35% 10% 5%
Rifles 10% 5% 25% 5% 0%
Support Firearms 0% 0% 15% 0% 0%
Communication 15% 20% 20% 0% 10%
Acting 20% 45% 15% 60% 20%
Music 20% 20% 20% 20% 20%
Etiquette 20% 55% 10% 10% 20%
Literacy 40% 25% 10% 10% 20%
Appraisal 10% 60% 25% 20% 20%
Mechanics 35% 10% 30% 10% 10%
Navigation 20% 20% 25% 10% 10%
Pilot 10% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Basic Medicine 35% 15% 20% 60% 10%
Advanced Medicine 25% 5% 10% 50% 10%
Pharmacy 15% 0% 0% 40% 10%
Psychology 20% 10% 5% 0% 0%
Religion 25% 25% 25% 25% 25%
Biology 20% 10% 5% 5% 10%
Physics 20% 10% 5% 0% 10%
Computers 20% 15% 0% 0% 10%
Electronics 35% 20% 5% 5% 0%
Engineering 60% 10% 10% 10% 10%
Demolition 5% 10% 35% 10% 10%

Here is the Rosetta Stone for this chart.
Skill- This is the name of the skill.
Technological Stronghold, Advanced City- If your character is from either of these
regions, then these are the starting values of your skills.
Trade City, Rebuilt City- If your character is from either of these regions, then these are the
starting values of your skills.
Feudal City, Marauder Camp- If your character is from either of these regions, then these
are the starting values of your skills.
Dirt City, Wild City- If your character is from either of these regions, then these are the
starting values of your skills.
Dead City, Wild- If your character is from either of these regions, then these are the starting
values of your skills.

Attribute Bonuses
If you have any of the following attributes are at, or above 4, then your character will receive a
+15% bonus to her skills according to the following chart. This bonus only applies when the
character is first created, and if her attributes go above 4 during the course of the game, then she
does not receive the bonuses. Conversely, if the character’s attributes drop to below 4, the
bonuses are not lost. This is done after the attributes are altered by the mutations she may or
may not possess.

Abstract- Acting, Appraisal
Learnable- Drive, Navigation
Senses- Basic Medicine, Mechanics
Stored- Literacy, Engineering
Sub-Conscience- Music, Religion
Bones- Smithing, Large Melee Weapons
Metabolism- Survival, Tinkering
Muscles- Swim, Throw
Skin- Domestics, Etiquette
Tendons- Dodge, Small Melee Weapons

When we last left our good friend Example Joe, he had rolled for his region. Now he has all of his skills assigned
and he’s going to figure out what skills get bonuses from any of his good attributes. If you remember his attributes,
after being modified by his mutations, looked something like this…

Mental            Physical
Abstract- 1       Bones- 5
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 1
Senses- 1         Muscles- 3
Stored- 4         Skin- 5
Sub Conscience- 5 Tendons- 2

Joe happens to have 4 attributes with 4 or more points in them. So because of this he gets bonuses of 15% to
some of his skills. These skills are, literacy, engineering, music, religion, smithing, large melee weapons, domestics,
and etiquette. Next Joe gets to spend some experience to make his character a little less not so good.
Character Creation

Skills
Next are the skill descriptions. The following is a quick description of what the skills may or may
not encompass.

Swim- Staying afloat in liquid environments. It may not seem like that important of a skill until
you are in the middle of the ocean on a sinking ship. This skill covers regular swimming styles,
staying afloat for long periods, snorkeling, scuba diving, as well as regular diving.

Drive- Getting from point A to point B with something other than your feet. This skill covers
operating all ground based motor vehicles and nautical vehicles under normal and aggressive
conditions and normal maintenance. The skill covers cars, motorcycles, bikes, trucks, tanks, sail
boats, oil tankers, power boats, row boats, as well as any other vehicle that operates only on the
land or sea. Does not include cruising or picking up chicks.

Domestics- The fine art of running a household. This skill covers cleaning with whatever
supplies are available, cooking with the foods available, sewing, as well as application of makeup.

Construction- The manly art of building and repairing structures. This skill covers the
building of new structures, the building of defensive fortifications, basic woodworking, basic
plumbing, basic electrical engineering, repairs necessary to keep a building running, as well as
necessary internal repairs to keep a building comfortable for living.

Survival- How to keep yourself alive when there is nobody else around. This skill covers
tracking of animals and people, identification of edible plants, identification of edible portions of
animals, methods of surviving for long periods without food or drink, as well as how to live off of
what the land provides.

Tinkering- Messing around with anything you can, usually without knowing how exactly it
works. This skill covers the manipulation of nearly any device, mostly jury rigging devices.

Smithing- How to manipulate metals and minerals to create metals and shape them however
you desire. This skill covers forging metals, smelting of ores, refining metals, shaping metals
under extreme heat, and metallurgy.

Prowl- This skill is all about being sneaky. This skill covers hiding, concealment, stealthy
movements, and camouflage. Note this does not cover being a creepy person, only creeping
about.

Lock picking- The fine art of unlocking a lock without the proper key. This skill covers
unlocking locks without a key, defeating coded locks, re-keying locks, and repairing locks. It’s as
easy as saying, “Open Sesame”.

Theft- This is a show of how good your five finger discount is. This skill covers stealing objects
from people without their knowledge, planting things on people without their knowledge, as well
as palming small objects. Just keep away from my wallet.

Dodge- It represents how well you can avoid harm from a variety of sources. This skill covers
dodging incoming melee attacks, dodging incoming ranged attacks, and general acrobatic feats.
Also includes dodging, diving, dipping, ducking, and dodging.

Unarmed- The fine art of pummeling people to death with whatever is attached to your body.
This skill covers natural attacks with your body, blocking incoming melee attacks with your body,
as well as knowing forms of unarmed combat. Some example forms of unarmed combat would
be boxing, king fu, and kick boxing. Natural attacks include punching, hitting something with a
web, or kicking.

Small Melee Weapons- How to liberate people of their lives with one handed melee weapons.
This skill covers the use of one handed melee weapons, blocking incoming melee attacks, as well
as the general upkeep of one handed melee weapons. Some example one handed melee
weapons are knives, maces, or hatchets.

Large Melee Weapons- This is the skill that covers attacking people with two handed melee
weapons. This skill covers use of two handed melee weapons, blocking incoming melee attacks
with two handed melee weapons, as well as general upkeep of two handed melee weapons.
Some examples of two handed melee weapons are claymores, fire axes, and oversized clubs.
Exotic Melee Weapons- If it’s not a normal melee weapon, it’s covered here. Everything
from bar stools to computer monitors, even the guy standing next to you. This skill covers covers
the use of specialty melee weapons, blocking incoming melee attacks with specialty melee
weapons, as well as general upkeep of of exotic melee weapons. Some examples of exotic melee
weapons are chains, saps, and chain saws.

Throw- Chucking things at people, that’s what this skill is all about. This skill covers throwing
small throwing knives, lobbing rocks, as well as tossing javelins. Some examples are throwing
knives, hand grenades, and spears.

Archery- It’s the age old skill covering simpler ranged weapons. This skill covers using bow
weapons, crossbow weapons, as well as the general upkeep of these weapons. Some examples of
archery weapons are bows, crossbows, and compound bows.

Pistols- How to pop caps at your enemies. That’s what this skill is all about. This skill covers
the use of one handed firearms, and the general upkeep of one handed firearms, it does not
include the wielding of two handed firearms while and strutting your stuff like certain action
heroes. Some examples of pistols are revolvers, semiautomatic pistols, and submachine guns.

Rifles- Using long arm weapons to bring your target down. This skill covers the use of two
handed firearms, and the general upkeep of two handed firearms, it does not include cheating
and using a one handed firearm with both hands. Some examples of rifles are hunting rifles,
assault rifles, and shotguns.

Support Firearms- The use of the really odd (and fun) ranged weapons. This skill covers any
firearms or ranged weapons that are not covered by archery, pistols, or rifles, as well as the
general upkeep of the special weapons. Some examples of support firearms are flame throwers,
machine guns, and cannons.

Communication- The fine art of speaking with other people without being near them. This
skill covers broadcasting over AM frequencies, broadcasting over FM frequencies, broadcasting
over UHF frequencies, VHF frequencies, setting up and transmitting cable television, setting up
and operating telephones, setting up and operating cellular telephones, setting up and operating
high speed internet access, and communicating with any satellite that may still exist. AM and
FM frequencies are for radio stations and UHF as well as VHF frequencies are for television
stations.

Acting- “To act, or not to act. That is the question.” This skill answers that age old with a
resounding, “YES!” This skill covers performing in front of large crowds, making people believe
you are someone that you aren’t, applying stage makeup, in addition to giving speeches to the
people.

Music- Jamming with instruments or singing along are what is covered by this skill. This skill
covers performing in front of crowds, singing, dancing, playing instruments, the basic use of
amplifiers, in addition to the basic use of recording equipment.

Etiquette- The fine art of knowing the little rules and regulations of socialization. This skill
covers knowledge of the various social rules and traditions, performance of ceremonial
procedures, knowledge of laws, general knowledge of the history of the world, and knowledge of
ethics.

Literacy- Can you read this? If so, then you are literate. This skill covers the reading of a
language of your choice, as well as the ability to write the language. This skill does not include
speaking the language simply writing and reading it.

Appraisal- The fine ability of knowing the values of goods and services. This skill covers a
general knowledge of values of goods, the general value of services, determining how well a
device is functioning, the value of various currencies in use, the exchange rates of various
currencies, as well as ways to haggle and barter goods and services.

Mechanics- The dirty art of repairing and building simple mechanical devices. This skill
covers repairing engines, building and rebuilding engines, repair of generators, building and
rebuilding of generators, repair of mechanical devices, as well as the building and rebuilding of
mechanical devices.

Navigation- Figuring out how to get from point A to point B. That’s what this skill is all about.
This skill covers map reading, cartography, astronomy, use of navigation tools, as well as
pathfinding. Some examples of navigational tools are sexton, compass, and radar systems.

Pilot- This skill covers how to go up up and away. It also luckily covers coming back down
safely. Specifically this skill covers operating aircraft, operating helicopters, operating gliders, as
well as general upkeep of said devices.

Basic Medicine- Keeping people alive until better care can be administered, that’s all that this
skill is interested in. This skill covers first aid, simple medical procedures, CPR, and the
prescribing of medicines to keep a person alive. Some examples of simple medical procedures
are applying a splint to broken limbs, controlling major bleeding, and immobilizing parts of the
body to prevent further injury.

Advanced Medicine- How to keep people healthy for a great and long time. This skill covers
internal surgery, techniques to assist the elderly through their golden years, techniques to assist a
person conquer substance addiction, techniques to improve a person’s overall health, and
prescription of medicine to improve a person’s overall health.

Pharmacy- Drugs. That’s all this skill is about. What they are, what they’ll do to you, and how
to make them. Specifically this skill covers knowledge of chemistry, the creation of drugs, the
proper dosage of drugs for patients, the prescription of suitable alternatives for drugs that aren’t
available, the identification of herbal remedies, knowledge of the effects of drugs on the body,
and creation of chemical compounds.

Psychology- Understanding how the mind works, and how your mother made it the way it is.
This skill covers understanding how the mind copes with various situations, easing people
through mental trauma, inflicting great mental trauma, as well as the prescription of drugs that
have specific effects on the mind.

Religion- A fundamental answer to the great question. Why? But you can’t get the answer that
easy, so here is what the skill covers. general knowledge of the various religions, general
knowledge of the various cults that come and go, knowledge of the various religious ceremonies
and practices, knowledge of various cult’s ceremonies and practices, as well as knowledge of
prominent figures in the religion’s or cult’s history.

Biology- A skill that centers around the functioning of creatures that inhabit this planet. This
skill covers knowledge of plant physiology, animal physiology, knowledge of how creatures and
plants adapted and evolved, knowledge of mutations and their effects on people, as well as
knowledge of possible causes of mutations.

Physics- This skill covers how the world basically operates. This skill covers general knowledge
of science, knowledge of the interactions between matter and energy, knowledge of the
properties of various materials, as well as general knowledge of how the universe works.
Computers- The fine art of operating computing devices. This skill covers knowledge of
operating computers, operating programable calculators, operating PDA’s, hacking of computers,
debugging software, as well as recovery of lost data. This skill only covers software, it does not
cover hardware.

Electronics- If it’s powered by electricity, then this skill covers it’s bits and pieces. This skill
covers the creation of electronic devices, repair of electronic devices and the modification of
electronic devices. Some examples of electronic devices are computers, televisions, and radios.
This skill only covers hardware, it does not cover software.

Engineering- All the planning and design of anything at all. This skill covers the planning of
construction projects, knowledge of construction techniques, as well as a general knowledge of
various material’s properties. This skill covers the planning stages of construction, it does not
cover the actual construction of structures.

Demolition- The fine art of destroying objects and people with explosives. This skill covers the
proper application of explosives, a good understanding of the effects of explosives, the proper
placement of explosives, as well as the creation of explosives.

Skill Equivalents
So now that you have your base skills set out, you want to know how you stack up against the rest
of the world. Here’s something that will help you do that.

Skill Equivalents
0%- Nonexistent- You haven’t the slightest idea as to what the skill is about, other than what
the name may imply.

15%- Average Joe- Here is where a “Jack of all traits” would have his skills, enough to make it
look like you know what you are doing, but not enough to really do much of anything at all.

35%- Average Champion- Here is where most people start to show a better understanding of
the subject. They know what they can do, and what they can’t. They may not be the best ever,
but they know that they can improve, and they do try to improve.

55%- Great Champion- Here is where you would be considered a “Master”. There are some
things that you don’t know just yet, but you can, and have lived without them.

75%- Epic Champion- Here is where you are considered the one of the best around. There
are betters, but not many, so enjoy it while you can.

100%- Super Hero- You could star in your own comic book, if they still existed. But since
they don’t, you will just have to deal with being in stories told around camp fires. Your ability in
this skill is nearly infallible. Your skill is nearly unmatched.

200%- Greatest Ever- You rock. Plain and simple. Everyone knows about your talents, and
most think that it’s just bed time story. This is the highest a skill can, or will ever get. And at this
level, you are The Man (or The Woman).

Combat Training
Combat training is how your character learns how to defend herself. It could be anything from
extensive military training, to learning how to box in the ring, to just making it up as you go. No
matter what kind of training your character may choose, you must pay some of your beginning
experience to “purchase” the training. The cost is listed with each form of training. After
purchasing your combat training, your character gains discounts to specific skills. In mechanical
game terms, your character need only pay half of their normal skill cost amount to purchase the
skills listed with the combat training. As an added bonus, characters gain a pernimant bonus to
the attribute listed. Now if a character is to receive another form of combat training, the mythmaker
is advised to make it a very difficult time. But if they survive the training, they receive the
bonus on top of any other bonuses they may possess from other combat trainings.

Untrained- (0 Experience) You know how to hit someone, and you know which end of the
gun you are suppose point at a person, and that’s about it. Everything you learned you learned
on your own. That isn’t a bad thing, but you take longer to learn the more extravagant combat
moves.
Skill Discount- None.
Bonus- None.

Boxing- (100 Experience) You used to fight a lot. Be it in a ring, or on darkened streets. You
know you like to use your fists, and you also know how to make them hurt. Boxing concentrates
on punches and blocking with your arms. As you grow more knowledgeable, your punches will
“fly like a butterfly, and sting like a bee”, a very painful bee.
Skill Discount- Unarmed
Bonus- +3 to Melee Damage

Knife Fighting- (250 Experience) Perhaps you were the scrawny kid that got beaten up, and
to even the odds, you picked up a knife. Or maybe you just didn’t want the scrawny kid to have
the slightest of chances. Either way, you were hooked when you first wielded a knife. Ever since,
you have used little other than your trusty knife. In the beginning, you aren’t intimidating to
much more than the kids you used to beat up. Given enough time and practice though, you
could tap-dance all over someone’s face without breaking a sweat.
Skill Discount- Small Melee Weapons
Bonus- +3 to Initiative

Primitive- (250 Experience) You grew up in a community where technology was treated as
sacred artifacts, or not even heard of. Your community used primitive tools and weapons to
defend themselves. Not a single man, woman, or child was a stranger to the weapons of your
tribesmen. You learned the basics of melee combat.
Skill Discount- Large Melee Weapons
Bonus- +5 to all Damage Resistances

Football- (500 Experience) Everyone laughed at you when you threatened them with a
football. After everyone else was knocked out, you had the last laugh. A former quarterback that
loved to throw the pigskin around, you decided that other things would be more fun to throw
around. Like things that impale. Or explode.
Skill Discount- Throw
Bonus- +3 Base Flesh

Town Guard- (500 Experience) You did a brief tour as a guard in your hometown. They
taught you the basics of archery and then gave you a bow and quiver. You did your time and got
a bit better at it and then you decided to go off and use what you learned outside of the
claustrophobic walls of your hometown.
Skill Discount- Archery
Bonus- +5 to all Damage Resistances

Action Movies- (750 Experience) You have somehow seen a lot of violence from movies,
video games, music videos, or read about it in books, but no matter how you have experienced it,
you decided that that is how you are going to fight. Since movie making is a sort of “long lost”
art form, you don’t know about the army of minions that work with the star to make them fight
like that. But regardless you still strive to achieve that kind of fighting. At first it is laughable, but
as you progress, who knows?
Skill Discount- Exotic Melee Weapons
Bonus- +3 to Initiative

Military- (750 Experience) You were conscripted to serve in a local military. They taught
you how to wield a crossbow and your fists. Then they threw you into the meat grinder. You
came out alive and deserted your unit. Now armed with your new skills you do as you please and
don’t let anyone push you around anymore.
Skill Discount- Rifles
Bonus- +5 to all Damage Resistances

Now that you know what your character’s attributes, skills, good points, and bad ones are, it is
time to give her some experience to improve those parts that may need a little work. It isn’t
much, but every character starts off with 1,000 experience to spend as they wish. If they do not
wish, then they can simply hold on to it until a later time. This chunk of experience is due to
characters having their own lives and actions before the characters possessed them. It’s also a
nice gesture so that characters can be tweaked in small ways before the game begins.
The experience can be spent in any way that a normal character can spend it. Characters may
also purchase combat trainings in the beginning to make their characters unstoppable death
machines. Any way that they spend it, it’s theirs to play with. For a more in depth look at
spending experience, see the end of the Rules Chapter. After that it’s time to equip your
character.
Now comes the time when Joe would like to spend some of his experience to strengthen some of his character’s
weaker points. He’ll probably never have a rock solid character, but Joe would like to not hamstring himself in the
beginning if he can. So he considers the various combat trainings. At first he likes Untrained so that he can spend
more of his experience making his character awesome. But then he realizes that this could be the only chance his
character has to get combat training of any kind. So he decides on Town Guard for his combat training. It gives
him a neat background to play with and some useful bonuses. Joe finds his damage resistances and adds 5 to each
one. This includes the disease resistance. He then also marks his skill, archery, because it now costs half the
normal experience to increase his archery skill. With the last 500 experience he has left (1000 available - 500 for
town guard combat training) he decides to improve a few of his skills a little bit.
Firstly he increases his archery by 10%. This would normally cost 18 experience per skill %, but since it’s his
discounted skill, it’s only 9 experience to increase it 1%. This takes his archery skill from 25% to 35%. He then
opts to put 5% in unarmed, so if he is ever without bow he won’t be an easy target. His new unarmed skill goes
from 30% to 35%. Finally to make a few extra bucks, hopefully, he adds 5% to his appraisal skill so he can
determine the crap from the phat loots. This final boost brings his appraisal from 20% up to 25%. This leaves
Joe with 230 experience, which he plans on saving for another time. So his available experience becomes 230.
Finally he moves on to purchasing his equipment.
For those interested, Example Joe’s final character sheet (we’re not finished with him just yet…) will appear in the
back of the book. Also appearing back there is the blank character sheet for you to create your own characters
yourself.

Mutations

Name 
Description 
Possible Causes 
Negatives Bonuses

(1) Right track DNA 
Your DNA is starting to go on the right track, slowly turning you immune
Just very good luck, sorry
Character loses 1d10 random mutations this dose.
Character loses 1d10 random mutations this dose.

(2) Typhoid Mary 
You do not suffer any further mutations from this dose
Just very good luck, sorry
None You do not suffer any further mutations from this dose

(3) Unstable genetic code
Your body is constantly changing, evolving, and mutating
Using Syrum multiple times Characters have to re-roll all of their mutations this dose. Including this one.
Characters have to re-roll all of their mutations this dose. Including this one.

(4) Cancerous 
You are a walking tumor
Having cancer raging through your body
None 
Healing rate is for every 5 minutes, not for every day.

(5) Elongated limbs 
Your limbs are overly long and awkward
Still growing 
None 
May reach twice as far as normal, and you are really tall

(6) Hoofed feet 
Your feet are cloven hoofs
Consuming a pork or beef meal
Can not wear foot wear
May cause double damage with kicks

(7) Webbed hands and feet
Your hands and feet have webs of skin between the fingers
Consuming a fishy meal
None 
+25% to swimming

(8) Ham fisted 
Your hands are overly large, and perfect for smack downs
Just bad luck, sorry 
Very difficult to perform delicate tasks.
+1d10 to melee damage

(9) Extra limbs 
You have extra arms or legs, that are without fingers or toes
Consuming insects 
Limbs have no fingers or toes, so can only perform basic actions
May use extra limbs to perform simple actions, character has 1d10 extra limbs, extra limbs have same flesh as your regular arms

(10) Ravenous flesh 
Your flesh absorbs anything kept in contact with it for extended periods
Having splinters 
Any clothing or object kept in contact with the skin for an extended period is absorbed into the character’s skin
Most recently absorbed material gives the character’s skin those characteristics

(11) Horns 
You have a pair of pointy horns growing out of your head
Consuming beef or goat
Can’t buy hats off the rack anymore
Can do a wicked head butt

(12) Uncovered brain
Your brain was formed with portions of it exposed to the world
Meditating or thinking too much
No natural damage resistance to your head
+1 to learnable

(13) Solid rib cage 
Your rib cage is made of one solid bone
Having broken ribs 
-1 action 
+75 flesh to body

(14) Snout 
You possess an animal-like snout instead of a mouth and nose
Consuming pork or beef
None 
+1 to senses

(15) Curly tail 
You have a curly tail growing from the bottom of your tailbone
Consuming pork 
None 
Tail has the same flesh as your head

(16) Beak 
You have a beak instead of a mouth and a nose
Consuming a foul meal
Difficult to speak 
May cause Laceration damage with pecks

(17) Gills 
You possess gills as well as lungs that will work together
Consuming a fishy meal
-1 action 
May breathe water or oxygen

(18) Fish eyes 
Your eyes are unblinking and wide-angled
Consuming a fishy meal
Must constantly wet eyeballs
Hard to surprise, can see 180º degrees around self

(19) Leaves and Bark
You have leaves and thin twigs instead of normal hair and bark instead of skin
Consuming plants 
-1 from Tendons 
50 Blunt absorb, 135 Laceration absorb, 20 Piercing absorb

(20) Web spinner 
You have an organ that can produce a sticky, strong string
Consuming insects 
None 
May produce string that is excessively sticky and strong

(21) Metallic bones 
Your bones are moremetal than bone
Having metal plates, or metal pins in your bones
-1 to Tendons 
+3 to Bones

(22) Cartilaginous bones
Your skeleton is made of cartilage, instead of bones
Just bad luck, sorry 
1/2 Bones 
You are very flexible

(23) Abnormally shaped bones
Your skeleton isn't shaped as it should be
Just bad luck, sorry 
Suffer from constant aches and pains
None

(24) Exoskeleton 
You have a skeleton on the outside
Consuming insects 
-2 to Tendons 
140 Blunt absorb, 140 Laceration absorb, 140 Piercing absorb

(25) Leaden skin 
Your skin has the same properties of a malleable metal
Not properly removing bullets from your body
-2 to Tendons sinks in water
50 Blunt absorb, 250 Laceration absorb, 170 Piercing absorb

(26) Tentacles 
You have long tentacles lined with suckers
Consuming a fishy meal
Suckers hold on to what they touch
When grappling, target can not escape until character releases them, has 1d10 tentacles

(27) Abnormally large head
You have a very big head
Meditating or thinking too much
Needs really big hats 
+1 to Learnable

(28) Hairless 
You do not have any hair upon your entire body
Just bad luck, sorry 
Gets colder faster 
None

(29) Hairy Your 
body is covered by a large and abnormal amount of hair
Just bad luck, sorry 
None 
Stays warmer

(30) Parasitic twin 
You possess a parasitic twin
Consuming human flesh
Has half a deformed person attached your chest
Twin has 1/2 the attributes of the host, and Flesh of your arms

(31) Charred skin 
Your skin looks like an overdone hamburger
Having burns on your skin
Suffer from constant aches and pains
+20 Laceration absorb

(32) Dense muscles 
Your muscles are packed more tightly than usual
Having extensive bruises
None 
+2 to Muscles

(33) Glass skin 
Your skin is as transparent and as brittle as glass
Not properly removing glass from a wound
Very fragile skin 
+25% to any medical skill used upon character

(34) Allergies 
You have an overwhelming allergy to a common substance
Just bad luck, sorry 
When exposed to allergen, character becomes incapacitated with sneezing, coughing, and general annoyances
None

(35) Plastic skin 
Your skin feels and looks more like plastic than flesh
Not properly removing plastic from a wound
Character becomes Flammable
60 Blunt absorb, 40 Laceration absorb

(36) Silicone flesh 
You have a jelly like layer of silicone between your muscles and skin
Having silicone implants
Appears to be overweight
+40 Blunt absorb, +20 Laceration absorb

(37) Tinted skin 
Your skin possesses an unnatural hue or pattern
Having a tattoo 
None 
Makes you look cool

(38) Feathers 
Your bodies' hair developed into feathers, instead of hair
Consuming a foul meal
None 
Stays warmer

(39) Pigskin 
Your skin is thicker than usual and covered with stiff bristles
Consuming pork 
None 
20 Blunt absorb, 40 Laceration absorb 

(40) Leathery hide 
Your skin is much thicker than usual, and you could be made into a jacket
Consuming beef 
None 
+2 Skin

(41) Scales 
You have hardened
scales instead of skin or hair
Consuming a fishy meal
-1 Tendons 
80 Blunt absorb, 60 Laceration absorb, 40 Piercing absorb

(42) Poisonous blood
Your blood is poisonous to everyone but yourself
Having poisons in your blood
None 
Consuming, or having character's blood enter the body counts as a dose of Misery

(43) Absence of fingernails and toenails
You were born without any fingernails or toenails
Just bad luck, sorry 
Very difficult to scratch itches
None

(44) Breathe smoke 
Your lungs produce a smoke with every breath
Smoking
No smoking penalties
May distract enemies in melee combat, -10% from their attack skill

(45) No immune system
Your bodies' immune system was destroyed, forgotten, or just disappeared
Just bad luck, sorry 
0% Disease Resistance
None

(46) Overactive mucus production
Your body produces far too much snot, ear wax, and spit
Having a cold 
-2 to Senses, sneezes and coughs a lot
+50% to Disease Resistance

(47) No sweat glands
Your body has no natural way or cooling itself off
Being too cold 
Character can not tolerate high temperatures, and could die from overheating
None

(48) No short-term memory
Your memory consists of only long term memories and skills
Having a concussion, or head trauma
Skills cost double to improve
None

(49) Retardation 
Your mental powers are a lot weaker than other people's
Having a concussion, or head trauma
½ your maximum skill level
+4 to Sub- Conscience

(50) Extra fingers 
You possess a sixth finger on each hand
Just dominant genes at work
None 
None

(51) Natural battery 
Your body naturally carries an electrical charge
Having a pacemaker 
Deals damage to others in water
May add +1d10 to Melee Damage when using metal weapons, or bare hands

(52) Dwarfism 
Your body is overly short and stocky
Just bad luck, sorry 
None 
None

(53) Gigantic 
Your body is overly tall and large
Just bad luck, sorry 
None 
None

(54) Preserved 
You will never suffer the effects of aging, nor age in your lifetime, which has a long shelf-life
Consuming artificially preserved food
Will stay at same age 
Never suffers negatives due to age

(55) Overactive digestion
Your digestive system is overactive you can feed it any substance, but you must feed it much more often
Just bad luck, sorry 
Must eat constantly 
+1 to Metabolism, may digest anything

(56) Inherited memories
You possess memories that your parents possessed while you were  conceived
Just bad luck, sorry 
Confused as to who you are
+1 to Abstract

(57) Androgynous 
You look like a cross between a man and a woman, with a little more woman, and no genitals
Just bad luck, sorry 
No genitals 
None

(58) Hermaphrodite 
You posses the genitals of a man AND a woman
Just bad luck, sorry 
Impotent 
None

(59) Altered perception
You see the visual spectrum as well as the ultraviolet spectrum
Having bad eyes 
Nothing quite looks right
Able to see pheromones given off by living objects

(60) Extra stomachs 
You have an extra stomach or two
Consuming beef 
Must eat twice as much
+2 to Metabolism

(61) Photosynthesis 
Your body doesn't need to consume food, your skin absorbs energy for life
Consuming plants 
None
Doesn't need to eat food

(62) Absorbs light 
Your skin absorb all nearby light making you a black spot on the world
Playing around with dark matter
Only your skin absorbs light
Skin disappears into the night

(63) Blood sucker 
You must glut yourself upon the blood of animals or people
Consuming or having ticks
Must consume full meals of blood
Saliva contains anticoagulating compound

(64) Leaping 
You may leap enormous distances easily
Consuming or having flees
None 
May leap Muscles x2 yards

(65) Adhesion 
Your bare hands and feet can stick to surfaces like an insect
Consuming an insect 
Hands and feet stick to everything
Hands and feet stick to everything

(66) Rotted flesh 
Your flesh is in a constant state of decay
Having gangrene, or a flesh eating virus
Smells bad, and looks disgusting 
+35% to Disease Resistance, may spread diseases

(67) Extra eyes 
You possess extra eyes
Consuming an insect 
None 
+2 to Senses, has 1d10 extra eyes

(68) Quills 
Your hair grows to be twice as long, and hardens into sharp quills
Just bad luck, sorry 
Clothing and armor are awkward to wear
Anyone takes 2d10 damage if you are grappled

(69) Hardened secretions
Your body secretes a substance that hardens, but can be peeled away when desired
Sweating too much 
When it hardens, -1 to Tendons
When hardens, +30 Blunt absorb, +20 Laceration absorb, +20 Piercing absorb

(70) Hemophiliac 
Your blood is missing the portion that cauterizes up wounds, making you bleed much more than normal
Having an open wound
Twice normal damage from blood loss, requires aid to cauterize wounds
None

(71) Hardened nails 
Your fingernails and toenails are much tougher than normal
Using some form of nail hardening solution
None 
May cause Laceration damage with punches

(72) Exceptionally low body temperature
Your body's temperature is much lower than normal
Being hypothermic 
Skin is tinted slightly bluish and cold to the touch
Resistant to the cold

(73) Exceptionally high body temperature
Your body's temperature is much higher than normal
Having a fever 
Skin slightly reddish and hot to the touch
Resistant to heat

(74) Passage of death
As you pass, plants wither and die
Just bad luck, sorry 
Any plants around you will die within minutes
None

(75) Albino 
Your body lacks any pigmentation at all
Just bad luck, sorry 
You are more susceptible to skin cancer
None

(76) Mechanical limb
One of your limbs is mechanical
Having a prosthetic limb
No sense of touch in that limb
+1d10 to damage inflicted by limb

(77) Overactive stomach acid production
Your stomach produces far too much acid
Eating too much acidic food
An ulcer, which will bothers you with it’s constant heartburn
May vomit strong acids onto people or things, causing 2d10 damage per turn

(78) Photographic memory
Everything you experience is recalled with unparalleled accuracy
Just good luck, sorry 
None 
+1 to Stored, may recall any details perfectly, and without any difficulty

(79) Absent minded 
You tend to forget small things.
Just bad luck, sorry 
You are never quite sure where your keys are
None

(80) Nearsighted 
You can see things up close sharply, but distance objects are fuzzy
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can’t see far away clearly
Can be corrected with glasses

(81) Farsighted 
You can see things in the distance clearly, but up close objects are fuzzy
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can’t see up close clearly
Can be corrected with glasses

(82) Wings 
Your hands formed improperly, the result was a pair of leathery wings, instead of arms
Consuming a winged meal
Exceedingly difficult to use normal devices
Can glide for short distances, given that the character falls from high enough
(83) Clawed feet 
Your feet are clawed and covered with leathery skin
Consuming a foul meal
Can not wear normal footwear
May cause Laceration damage with kicks

(84) Glows 
Your uncovered body glows in the dark
Consuming glowing, or radioactive substances
Nearly impossible to prowl at night
+15% to Disease Resistance, no darkness penalities for melee combat

(85) Receives radio waves
You can receive stray audio radio waves
Metal plates perfectly set in your head
-1 to Senses, due to constant static, or jabber in your head
May pick up radio waves transmitted in the general area 

(86) Pernimant wound
You have a pernimant wound, it may stop bleeding, but it won't ever heal up
Having a wound Suffers 1d10 damage to random location that can never be healed.
None

(87) Forked tongue 
Your tongue is forked
Consuming a reptile 
A little hard to speak properly
None

(88) Color blind 
You can not see any of the colors of the rainbow
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can not see colors 
None

(89) Amnesia 
Your memories have disappeared out of your head
Head trauma 
Can not remember any personal details about self 
Can still remember and use your skills

(90) Double jointed 
Your joints may all bend twice as far as normal
Too much stretching 
None 
Can bend, twist, and contort with the best of them

(91) Wiry 
You could have been a perfect "Before" for ADHD drugs
Too many drugs, or just too damn active
Hard to sit still for more than a few minutes at a time
+1 action

(92) Lethargic 
You don't like to move, at all
Sitting still for too long
-1 action 
None

(93) Overly aged 
Your body aged twice as fast as it should have
Just bad luck, sorry 
You’re an old (wo)man
You LOOK wiser

(94) Mute 
You can not speak a single word
Talking too much 
Silent for forever, unless you can find a voice-box
If silence was golden, you'd be rich, but it isn’t

(95) Lack of taste 
You have a tongue, but taste not
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can not taste 
None

(96) Lack of smell 
 You have a nose, but smell not
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can not smell 
None

(97) Lack of touch 
You have skin, but feel not
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can not feel 
Ignores all pain

(98) Lack of hearing
You have ears, but hear not
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can not hear 
None

(99) Lack of sight 
You have eyes, but see not
Just bad luck, sorry 
Can not see 
None

(100) Dead 
You have cheated death by using the syrum at the last moment
Being dead Death is coming to rectify the mistake
You get to live
another day

This is what the chart means

Name- What the mutation is titled, as well as what result on a roll you have to get to receive the
mutation randomly.
Description- A brief description of the mutations effects.
Possible Causes- Some reasons that one may get the mutation either during creation or after
syrum usage.
Negatives- How the mutation hinders you.
Bonuses- How the mutation helps you.

Gear

Money
After the dust settled, everyone realized that the paper money wasn’t worth the paper that it was
printed on. Mostly because the government that backed it was nonexistent, and the paper was
wasted. So everyone ended up deciding that coins were still worth while, due to the fact that they
were made of metals that could be used for tasks other than paying for goods or services. So the
coins became a new form of currency. Due to a new utilitarian point of view, the value of each
coin was altered. So here’s the new list of coin values.

Silver Dollar- $100
Fifty Cent Piece- $50
Quarter- $25
Nickel- $10
Penny- $5
Dime- $1

Weapons
Melee Weapons
These are the weapons that you use in melee combat. That means using swords, chains, fists,
feet, chairs, 2 x 4’s and any other implement that you might use to injure a person that is
propelled by your own muscles.
Here’s some melee weapons...

Name- Brass Knuckles
Damage Type- Blunt
Melee Damage- Melee Damage +5
Skill- Unarmed
Minimum Muscles- 0
Notes- A piece of steel shaped into the rough shape of a person’s fist with holes drilled into it.
Commonly used to make a person’s punch hurt much more. Can be used to knock out foes.
Value- 60 - 120
Name- Lead Pipe
Damage Type- Blunt
Melee Damage- Melee Damage +10
Skill- Small Melee Weapons
Minimum Muscles- 1
Notes- A hunk of old pipe. Long term exposure can lead to cancer, concussions, broken bones,
and even death. Can also be used to knock out foes.
Value- 6 - 50

Name- Fire Axe
Damage Type- Piercing
Melee Damage- Melee Damage +30
Skill- Large Melee Weapons
Minimum Muscles- 2
Notes- A standard axe for cutting fires. Actually an axe used by fire departments before the
plague. Now it’s use is for everything from removing trees from the forest to removing limbs from
bodies.
Value- 42 - 164

Name- Boot Knife
Damage Type- Laceration or piercing
Melee Damage- Melee Damage +8
Skill- Small Melee Weapons
Minimum Muscles- 0
Notes- A knife just the right size for a person’s boot. Makes the perfect weapon for those times
when ammunition is in desperate need.
Value- 180 - 460

Name- Spear
Damage Type- Laceration or piercing
Melee Damage- Melee Damage +25
Skill- Large Melee Weapons
Minimum Muscles- 3
Notes- A very long piece of wood with a sharpened rock tied to the end. Very effective against
anyone you want to keep at a distance from you.
Value- 5 - 23

Ranged Weapons
Ranged weapons are weapons that are used from a distance. They send various projectiles or
other objects outward faster than you can throw them. If you don’t wish to see the look of pain
and fear on your enemies face, then ranged weapons are for you.
Ranged weapons are divided into five general categories. The first category would be thrown
weapons. They are weapons that you throw at your enemies. Helpful in a pinch and allow you
to keep a good distance from your targets. They include, ninja stars, throwing knives, hand
grenades, and rocks.
The second category would be primitive ranged weapons. They are weapons that use simplistic
strings to launch small projectiles further than a person could throw them. They may be a
primitive and simple way of doing things, but they are effective. They include, bows and arrows,
crossbows, and spear cannons.
The third category would be pistols. They are smaller weapons that can be typically used with
one hand. You may opt to use both if you wish, but they are designed for one hand. They
include, pistols, revolvers, and submachine guns.
The fourth category would be rifles. They are firearms that use much longer bullets than pistols.
They have much more of a chance of penetrating armor, but do not do as much damage as a
pistol would. They include, hunting rifles, assault rifles, and shotguns.
The final category would be support weapons. They are any ranged weapons that do not fit in
the other category. They are the odd ball weapons and without proper knowledge they can be as
much damage to the user as the targets. They include machine guns, cannons, and flame
throwers.
Here is a wide (but not an end all listing) of ranged weapons.

Name- Bow and arrow
Caliber- Arrow
Rate of Fire- String (1)
Standard Ammunition Feed- Your hand (2 actions to reload)
Skill- Archery
Minimum Muscles- 2
Notes- A simple bow and arrow that uses the elastic principals it’s materials to send an arrow to
the targets much faster than throwing it at people. It also happens to be a very cheap and
effective means of arming one’s self.
Value- 51 - 350

Name- Crossbow
Caliber- Bolt
Rate of Fire- Single hand load (1)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 1 long shaft (3 actions to reload)
Skill- Archery
Minimum Muscles- 1
Notes- A good old trusty crossbow. Doesn’t require the troublesome strength to use like a
crossbow and it really helps killing off those vampires. For a limited time includes a build in too
to make reloading a breeze.
Value- 150 - 500

Name- .38 Revolver
Caliber- Small pistol
Rate of Fire- Single action (1)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 6 round cylinder (3 actions to reload)
Skill- Pistols
Minimum Muscles- 1
Notes- This pistol is a good all purpose pistol. Enough stopping power to take most people and
creatures down, but not too difficult to wield.
Value- 3,000 - 8,000

Name- Zip Gun
Caliber- Large pistol
Rate of Fire- Single Action (1-4)
Standard Ammunition Feed- Hand loaded single shot (5 actions to reload)
Skill- Pistols
Minimum Muscles- 4
Notes- A gun made from scrap materials to be little more than a trigger, handle, and something
to hold the bullets. Not fantastic looking, but it does have fantastic stopping power. Due to it’s
poor manufacture it may be a little difficult to wield.
Value- 500 - 750

Name- Pipe Rifle
Caliber- Shotgun
Rate of Fire- Single Action (1)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 1 shells hand loaded (2 actions to reload)
Skill- Rifles
Minimum Muscles- 3
Notes- A simple lead pipe with a jury rigged trigger. Hand made post apocalyptic
craftsmanship.
Value- 825 - 1,500

Name- .22 Target Rifle
Caliber- Hold out pistol
Rate of Fire- Semi Automatic (1)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 20 round clip (2 actions to reload)
Skill- Rifles
Minimum Muscles- 1
Notes- This is a rifle that was designed to be used to kill small animals and varmints. Assassins
and sharp shooters discovered it did quite a number on people despite their large size. As a result
many swear by this rifle for it’s accuracy and it’s murderous ability.
Value- 1,000 - 15,500

Name- 30.06 Rifle
Caliber- Large rifle
Rate of Fire- Bolt action (1)
Standard Ammunition Feed- Hand loaded single round (5 actions to reload)
Skill- Rifles
Minimum Muscles- 4
Notes- A rifle created to hunt large game and people. Very accurate and reliable.
Value- 6,000 - 23,500

Name- Tommy Gun
Caliber- Large pistol
Rate of Fire- Burst fire (3)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 45 round clip (3 actions to reload)
Skill- Rifles
Minimum Muscles- 4
Notes- A very large sized sub machine gun. Became very popular in the 50’s due to it’s use by
the various mobs of the time. Use has been known to make the user want to wear a fedora hat
and smoke cigars more often though.
Value- 12,260 - 64,000

Name- AK-47
Caliber- Large rifle
Rate of Fire- Variable rate of fire (1 - 3 - 12)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 30 round clip (3 actions to reload)
Skill- Rifles
Minimum Muscles- 5
Notes- A popular assault rifle made in large amounts over in Russia. Prized and revered for it’s
durability. It has been known to survive water damage, sand, and dirt and still fire as well as
when it was first manufactured.
Value- 30,000 - 100,000

Name- .50 Cal
Caliber- Small cannon
Rate of Fire- Fast fully automatic (30)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 300 round fabric belt (5 actions to reload)
Skill- Support Firearms
Minimum Muscles- 8
Notes- A very old model of machine gun that has withstood the test of time. Still in active use
during the time of the plague, and still sees service in the hands of brutal and well funded
warlords, or those with great amounts of power behind them.
Value- 50,000 - 250,000

Name- Flame Thrower
Caliber- Liquid sprayer
Rate of Fire- Sprayer (1)
Standard Ammunition Feed- 10 gallon tank (6 actions to reload)
Skill- Support Firearms
Minimum Muscles- 2
Notes- A sprayer attached to a 10 gallon tank to spray out a flammable liquid and ignite it.
Produces fantastic effects and is a really great way to roast weenies. Thanks to it spraying a wide
area, makes roasting your enemies much easier. Adds +25% to a character’s skill to hit their
target.
Value- 1,000 - 3,000

Ammunition
Ammunition is the stuff that you can use to hurt people, but most require another item to make
them work, like a gun.

Name 
Damage 
Notes 
Value

Thrown Weapons
Rock 
1d10 
None 
Free!-2

Ninja Star 
2d10 
None 
2-20

Throwing Knife 
2d10 
None 
2-20


Primitive Projectiles
Arrows 
1d10x2 
None 
2-20

Bolts 
1d10x2 
None 
2-20

Spears 
3d10x2 
50% chance of continuingthrough target
6-60

Hold Out Pistol
Rounds
Jacketed Rounds 
1d10x2 
None 
80-160

Lead Rounds 
2d10x2 
None 
40-100

Hollow Head Rounds 
3d10x2 
None 
60-130

Small Pistol Rounds
Jacketed Rounds 
2d10x5 
None 
150-425

Lead Rounds 
3d10x5 
None 
100-350

Hollow Head Rounds 
4d10x5 
None 
125-400

Small Rifle Rounds
Jacketed Rounds 
1d10x10 
None 
150-425

AP Rounds (Armor Piercing Rounds)
1d10x10 
Ignores armor 
100-350

Tracer Rounds 
1d10x10 
25% chance of catchingflammable items on fire
125-400

Large Rifle Rounds
Jacketed Rounds 
2d10x10 
None 
300-515

AP Rounds (Armor Piercing Rounds)
2d10x10 
Ignores armor 
315-530

Tracer Rounds 
2d10x10 
25% chance of catchingflammable items on fire
350-600

Shotgun Shells
Rock Salt 
1d10 
Incapacitates living targets 
20-50
Buckshot 
4d10x2 
+25% to skill to hit target 
15-35
Slug 
3d10x10 
None 
40-75

Small Cannon Shells
Normal Shells 
1d10x50 
None 
500-750

AP Shells (Armor Piercing Shells)
1d10x50 
Ignores armor 
750-1,000

Depleted Uranium Shells 
1d10x50 
Causes a small dose of radiation
1,000-1,500

Large Cannon Shells
Normal Shells 
1d10x100 
None 
1,500-3,000

AP Shells (Armor Piercing Shells)
1d10x100 
Ignores armor 
2,000-4,000

Depleted Uranium Shells 
1d10x100 
Causes a small dose of radiation
2,500-5,000

Rockets
AP Rockets (Armor Piercing Rockets)
1d10x2d10 
Ignores armor, 
5 ft blast area, does piercing damage
2,000-4,000

Incendiary Rockets 
1d10x1d10 
Ignores armor, 25 ft blast area, does piercing damage, fires started with this can not be put out
1,500-3,000

High Explosive Rockets 
2d10x3d10 
30 ft blast area, does piercing damage
2,500-5,000

Grenades
Smoke Grenade 
2d10 Damage is only if the grenade is picked up, disperses a 30 ft cloud that can not be seen through, 
grenade heats up for 1 minute (6 turns) when used
500-2,500

Tear Gas Grenade 
2d10 
Damage is only if the grenade is picked up, disperses a 15 ft cloud that incapacitates anyone caught 
in it, grenade heats up for 1 minute (6 turns) when used
1,000-4,000

Fragmentation Grenades 
2d10x2d10 
20 ft blast area, does piercing damage
1,250-4,000

Concussion Grenades 
3d10x3d10 
5 ft blast area, does piercing damage
1,300-4,250

Flash Bang Grenades 
None 
Subtracts 1d10 actions from everyone within 10 ft for 5 minutes (30 turns)
1,000-5,000

Explosives
Crude Explosive 
3d10x2d10 
Halves armor, 10 ft blast area, does piercing damage
300-500

Land Mine 
3d10x3d10 
Halves armor, 5 ft blast area, does piercing damage
3,000-9,000

Demolition Explosive 
5d10x5d10 
Halves armor, 25 ft blast area, does piercing damage
5,000-25,000

Incendiary Explosive 
1d10x1d10 
Ignores armor, 30 ft blast area, 75% chance of catching fire, fires started with this can not be put out
250-1,000

Combustibles
Generally Burning
Objects
1d10 Ignores armor, this is the damage when an object catches fire
Free!

Gasoline 
2d10x1d10 
Ignores armor 
50-100

Ethyl Alcohol 
2d10x1d10 
Ignores armor 
15-45

Diesel 
1d10x1d10 
Ignores armor 
50-100

Jet Fuel 
4d10x1d10 
Ignores armor 
400-4,000

Napalm 
3d10x1d10 
Ignores armor, fires started with this can not be put out
150-300

Here is what they are suppose to mean...
Name- What the ammo is called, and it’s category.
Damage- How much the ammo hurts when you get shot.
Notes- Anything you may need to know about the ammo in question.
Value- The range of how much the ammo is worth. It’s price depends upon the supply and
quality of the ammunition. It is per round or gallon, not per clip or tank full.

Armor
Any person who is worth their salt realizes that you can not survive a battle for very long without
some form of protection. Protection that you wear is called armor, and it may be anything from
a bullet proof vest, the clothes you wear, to a suit made from animal bones. Whatever it may be,
you are probably wearing it to protect you, even if you are trying to make a fashion statement at
the same time.
Since every material is different in how it absorbs damage, here is the chart on what the material
may be, and how much damage it absorbs before your character has to deal with it. Also, the
price listed is per location, not for a whole suit. So if you want a full suit of leather, you must buy
it for the six parts of your body. It may be noted, that this may be an extensive list, you are free
to try to use something else for a form of armor, just try to figure out the stats and speak with the
myth-maker about it.

Name 
Blunt Laceration Piercing 
Description 
Notes 
Value

Skins 
1 8 1 
human or other thin skinned animals that has been tanned
Flammable 
10-20

Regular Clothing
2 8 2 
normal clothing that you would wear day to day
Flammable 
12-24

Animal Hides 
6 8 2 
untreated animal skins 
Flammable 
16-30

Reptile Skins 
4 12 4 
snakes and alligator skins 
Flammable 
20-40

Patches 
+2 +4 +2 
small fabric added to armor to cover up holes or proclaim your opinions, can not be used by itself
Flammable 
8-16

Reinforced Clothing
16 30 14 
thick fabric, high-tech fibers, heavy garments
Flammable 
60-118

Padded Clothing
30 26 14 
sparring pads, 3+ layers of regular clothing, ect.
Flammable 
70-124

Leather 16 40 24 
Leatherneck skin that has been tanned
Flammable 
80-168

Bone 
40 40 30 
Remnant bones of dead animals and/or foes
Chips 
110-210

Plaster 
80 60 28 
helps hold limbs immobile Can help with medical skills,
Chips
168-284

Plastic 
60 80 40 
mostly used as a safety precaution, not armor
Flammable 
180-340
Rubber 
72 80 36 
PVC latex to soles of shoes 
Flammable 
188-340

Wood 
100 60 40 
carved from trees 
Flammable 
200-340

Hardened Leather
60 120 60 
leather boiled to make it harder, but less mobile
None 
240-480

Chain Mail 
60 100 100 
blast from the past 
Heats Up 
260-560
Studs 
+30 +20 
None small metal studs added to clothing to reduce damage, can not be used by itself
Flammable 
50-70

Scrap Metal 
125 300 125 
everything from garbage cans, to car hoods
Heats up 
550-1,100

Kevlar 
50 50 600 
"bullet proof" cloth 
None 
1,400-3,900

Flack Material
60 60 600 
an army issue defensive material
None 
1,440-3,960

Plate Mail 
250 350 250 
blast from the past (part 2)
Heats up, Large and bulky
850-1,700

DemolitionMaterial
200 200 800 
used to protect from accidental bomb detonation
None 2,400-6,000

Hardened Steel Plates
+50 +125 +200 
very tough metal plates inserted under armor to provide extra protection to vital areas, must be added to armor
Heats up 
50-1,800

There are a few categories on the armor chart, and here is what they mean…
Name- What the material is usually called.
Blunt- The amount of blunt damage that the armor absorbs before it damages your character.
Laceration- The amount of laceration damage that the armor absorbs before it damages your
character.
Piercing- The amount of piercing damage that the armor absorbs before it damages your
character.
Description- What the armor is.
Notes- Any special things you may need to know about your armor.
Value- The usual price, varied by the supply, and quality of the armor.

Notes
Every suit of armor is different, and here are the special effects that happen to suits of armor
when it is hit by a specific type of damage.

Flammable- This when this material comes in contact with fire, or extreme heat, it will catch
fire.
> If attacked by fire has a 75% chance of catching fire, and you suffer additional fire damage.
Shatters- This material is fragile, and if it takes too much damage, it will shatter into pieces
there by making it completely useless.
> If the attack exceeds the amount of damage that the armor can absorbs, it shatters, destroying
it completely.

Large and Bulky- This material is very large, cumbersome, and generally not fun to wear all
the time. If you do decide to (or have to) wear it you suffer penalties to Muscles and Tendons.
> While wearing suffer -2 to Muscles and Tendons.

Heat Reduction- This material distributes heat very well and doesn’t catch fire very easily.
When you are hit by any form of heat or flame, the armor will reduce the amount of heat
damage that you receive. This also applies to damage done by fire and flame based weapons.
> Reduces all heat damage by half.

Heats Up- This material absorbs heat and doesn’t displace it very well. Wearing it when
attacked by any form of heat causes it to heat up to painful levels, thereby doing more damage
than good.
> When attacked by heat, after the first turn does an additional 2d10 damage for every turn that
the armor is heated up.

Chips- This material when damaged will lose pieces of itself, until it literally falls off of your
body.
> When attacked, the armor takes double the damage that is dealt to it.
Equipment
103

Drugs
These are the drugs. Not just the kind that you get addicted to, but the ones that help you heal
wounds, and the ones that can kill you.

Name 
Description 
Negatives 
Bonuses 
Duration 
Value

Surge 
A drug that speeds up your metabolism
None 
+3 to Metabolism, +1 action
1d10 hours 
5-125

Numb 
A drug that numbs your body and mind
-2 to mental attributes
Becomes immune to all pain
1d10 hours 
25-150

Cigarettes 
An effective way to kill yourself, and look cool
-1 disease resistance per pack smoked
None 
1d10 minutes 
2-10

Daze 
A calming drug 
-1 to all mental attributes
None 
1d10 hours 
2-50

Rage 
A drug that increases your strength, speed, and anger
Character becomes very mean
+3 to all physical attributes
3d10 minutes 
50-250

Mad Hatter 
A drug that alters your perception of reality
-3 to Senses 
None 
5d10 hours 
3-25

Rush 
A drug that speeds you up and makes you feel invincible
Character is not really invincible
+3 to Metabolism, +1/2 total flesh to all locations
2d10 minutes 
25-150

Alcohol 
A drug that numbs your pain
A splitting headache the next day
Helps to numb the pain (or so you think)
1d10 hours 
1-50

Pain Killers 
A drug that numbs your pain without hangovers
None 
Reduces the character’s pain
1d10 hours 
15-250

Blur 
A drug that makes you think that you are superman
None 
+3 to all physical attributes
1d10 minutes 
30-350

Penicillin 
A drug that kills off bacteria
None 
+50 to your Disease Resistance for fighting disease
1d10 days 
100-1,000

Pain 
A drug that inflicts debiitating pain
Target writhes on ground for duration
None 
1d10 minutes 
5-25 

Misery 
A drug that grinds your mind to a hault
-1d10 from target’s initiative for duration
None 
1d10 minutes 1
0-50

Blind 
A drug that blinds you
Target is blinded for the duration
None 
1d10 
20-100

Death 
A drug that ravages the body
Inflicts the target’s body times 1d10 damage
None 
1d10 minutes 
40-200

Neosporin 
A drug that you put on cuts and scrapes to help them heal faster with less scars
None 
Doubles amount healed, can only be used on minor cuts and scrapes
1d10 hours 
75-250

Syrum 
A wonder drug that does as much harm as good
Adds 1d10 relevant mutations by next morning
Purges all poisons, diseases, heals all lost limbs and damage in 30 minutes
1 day 
500-10,000

Here is what the chart means...
Name- What it is called.
Description- What the drug is.
Negatives- How the drugs hurt you.
Bonuses- How the drugs help you.
Duration- How long the drug runs through your system.
Value- How much the drug is worth. The price is dependent upon the supply, and the quality.
With those nasty drugs done, here are some of the wonderful toys that you can find around. It
has been said before, but if there isn’t something on the list that is desired or discovered, then
speak with the myth-maker and make up some statistics for it.

Items

Name 
Description 
Use 
Value

Shovel 
A tool used to dig up the ground
Can you can dig it? 
5-100

Back Pack 
A container for holding things on your back
When pockets just won’t do
5-100

Razor A small blade useful only for removing hair 
Better than using a knife to shave
2-25

Book 
A collection of words used to expand your mind
+5% to +35% on applicable skill pernimantly
5-1,000

Cards 
A set of cards to pass the time
Also a good way to make money
5-35

Tarot Cards 
A set of cards to help you see the future
Helps to see the future 
25-100

Compass 
A device to tell which way is north
Helps with navigation 
5-100

Map 
A sheet of paper used to figure out where you are
Helps with navigation 
50-250

Range Finder A device that tells you how far a given thing is
Gives accurate measurement of distance
3,000-5,000

Binoculars 
A device to allow you to see farther than you usually can
Makes objects larger than they appear to the naked eye
500-1,000

Infrared Goggles 
A device used to allow you to see the heat given off by objects
Lets you see in the inferred spectrum. Runs off of small batteries
1,500-25,000

Night Vision Goggles 
A device used to allow you to see in the dark
Lets you see at night. Runs off of small batteries
2,500-25,000

Flashlight 
A device that allows you to see specific spots in the dark
Allows you to see at night. Runs off of small batteries.
50-300

Flare 
A disposable solution to the problem of darkness.  Allows characters to see large regions at night. 
Each flare lasts 3-4 hours. 75% chance of catching target on fire if used as a weapon
5-250

Torch 
A stick with an oil soaked rag tied to it.  Lights area around characters.
Lasts 2-3 hours. 75% chance of catching target on fire if used as a weapon
0-5

Rope 
A long length of rope. 
Assists characters in climbing.
5-100

Sun Glasses 
A device to reduce the amount of light that gets to your eyes
Makes daylight easier on your eyes
5-100

Glasses 
A device that can help or hinder your eyesight
Can negate or enhance nearsightedness or farsightedness
50-250

Duct Tape 
A tool to help to hold things together
Always useful 
5-50

Incense 
A device to help you meditate
Relaxing, no? 
1-25

CD Player 
A device to entertain you 
It plays CDs to entertain you
500-2,500

Computer (Home)
A device for complex mathematical processes, and for entertainment
It can play games or solve complex mathematical problems
25,000-50,000

Computer (Laptop) 
A device for complex mathematical processes, and for entertainment
It can play games or solve complex mathematical problems
75,000-125,000

Computer (Palm Pilot)
A device for complex mathematical processes, and for entertainment
It can play games or solve complex mathematical problems
30,000-100,000

Paper 
A sheet of blank paper 
To write or draw on 
1-15

Pencil 
A tool to write with 
To write or draw with 
1-10

TV (Home)
A device to entertain you 
Receives entertaining broadcasts
5,000-10,000

TV (Travel)
A device to entertain you 
Receives entertaining broadcasts
5,000-15,000

Radio (Stereo)
A device to entertain you 
Receives entertaining broadcasts
10,000-25,000

Radio (Boom Box)
A device to entertain you 
Receives entertaining broadcasts on the go
2,500-5,000

Rations 
Preserved and packaged food for one meal.
It quiets the rumbly in your tumbly.
1-100

Batteries (Small)
An item to power portable electronic devices
Lasts 4-6 hours 
125-500

Batteries (Medium)
An item to power portable electronic devices
Lasts 9-12 hours 
175-625

Batteries (Large)
An item to power cars and other large objects with
Lasts 12-24 hours 
250-2,500

VCR
A device to entertain you 
Plays video tapes 
2,500-10,000

Tapes (Audio)
An item to entertain you and keep audio recordings
Plays cassette tapes 
250-500

Tapes (Video)
An item to entertain you and to keep audio and visual recordings
Stores video and audio information
500-1,000

Geiger Counter 
A device to detect radiation
Warns you of nearby radiation and tells you how much is in the area, or on an object
5,000-20,000

Biological Hazard Suit (NBC Suit)
A suit to prevent radiation, chemical, and biological contamination
+95% to Disease Resistance
25,000-35,000

DVD 
A device to entertain you 
Stores video and audio information
500-750

CD 
A device to entertain you 
Stores audio information 
225-425

Portable Gasoline Generator
A device to generate electricity
can run for 3 days on 2 gallon of gasoline
75,000-100,000

Suit Case 
A device for holding things 
Turns you into a sharp dressed man (or woman)
50-500

Wire 
An item to transmit electricity
You can use it to conduct electricity
1-100

Water Purification Pills 
An item to make water drinkable
Kills bacteria and parasites in water
125-375

Shoes 
An item to protect your feet
Protects feet from glass, blisters, and other painful things
5-100

Make-Up 
An item to make you look different
Makes you look pretty 
5-100
Blanket 
An item to keep you warm 
Keeps you warm and toasty
5-100

Tent 
An item to help you sleep in the wilderness
Helps keep the elements at bay
50-100

Flint 
Need steel to strike against for sparks
An item to help you start a fire
5-25

Magnesium Strip
Need steel to strike against for sparks
An item to help you start a fire
10-35

Matches 
Paper or wood matches 
An item to help you start a fire
10-100

Lighter 
Plastic disposable lighter 
An item to help you start a fire
15-80

Zippo 
Metal wind proof refillable lighter
An item to help you start a fire
25-100

Purse 
An item to hold small items
Keeps your stuff more organized
5-250

Wallet 
An item to hold small papers
Keeps your money and small papers more organized
5-100
Head Phones 
A device to listen to audio output quietly
Hooked up to various electronic devices
500-3,000

Thermometer 
An object that tells how hot or cold it is
A device to tell the temperature
15-25

Pocket Watch 
A watch that you carry in your pocket
A device to tell time 
25-250

Wrist Watch 
A watch that goes on your wrist
A device to tell time 
250-500

Don’t know what it all means? Here’s something to help with that.
Name- What it is called.
Description- What it is.
Use- What they are used for.
Value- What the item is worth, dependent upon the supply and quality.

Vehicles
Anyone will tell you that the fastest way from point A to point B is a straight line, but it’s even
faster with a cool set of wheels or wings. This section will deal with the wonders of vehicles.
Vehicles are divided into three groups, land, water, and air vehicles.
Land vehicles of course travel on the ground. They primarily remain on the earth and don’t
tend to fly or float too well. They include cars, trucks, and bikes.
Water vehicles travel through the various bodies of water. Depending on how large they are, and
how heavy they are, they may travel the oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, and even the creeks. They
include boats, jet skis, and hydrofoils.
Air vehicles fly through the air. They may move a bit on the land or the sea, or even both, but
they spend the most time in the air. Unluckily fuel and parts to keep the vehicles up in the air is
painfully expensive, difficult to find, and the parts are very fragile. So they don’t usually last for
very long. They include airplanes, helicopters, and blimps.
And here is the list showing most of the vehicles you may (or may not) run into.

Bicycle
Name- Bicycle
Engine- Muscle powered
Minimum/Maximum Speed- 1 / (Muscles) MPH
Fuel Tank Size- 12 Speed.

Location    Substance   DT      Blunt Laceration  Piercing 
Engine      Depends     Depends None  None        None
Main Body   Aluminum    100     None  None        None
Cargo Hold  Wire basket 10      None  None        None
Wheels (2)  Rubber      25      35    40          20

Hard Points- 0
Soft Points- 0
Cargo Capacity- Driver and possibly a few very small possessions.
Notes- A small, simple, and remarkably useful vehicle. It is small enough to maneuver about with little 
trouble, but provides enough multiplication of a character’s muscular effort to make it worthwhile to 
use as a vehicle on it’s own. It is definitely much better than walking.
Value- 100 - 500

Truck
Name- Pickup Truck
Engine- Gasoline engine
Minimum/Maximum Speed- 1 / 150 MPH
Fuel Tank Size- Medium (20 Gallon)

Location    Substance DT    Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Engine      Aluminum  200   250   600         250
Main Body   Aluminum  200   250   600         250
Cargo Hold  None      None  None  None        None
Window      Glass     5     2     40          8
Tire (4)    Rubber    40    145   160         80

Hard Points- 1
Soft Points- 4
Cargo Capacity- Driver, a passenger, and a large amount of personal items and equipment.
Notes- A large truck mostly useful for taking whatever items from one place to another. Also makes quite 
a good mobile weapons platform to harass enemies.
Value- 15,000 - 40,000

House Boat
Name- House Boat
Engine- Gasoline engine
Minimum/Maximum Speed- 1 / 125 MPH
Fuel Tank Size- Large (50 Gallon)

Location    Substance DT Blunt  Laceration  Piercing 
Engine      Steel     800 500   700         500
Main Body   Wood      200 200   120         80
Cargo Hold  Wood      200 200   120         80
Window      Glass     5   2     40          8
Propeller   Aluminum  100 250   600         250

Hard Points- 2
Soft Points- 4
Cargo Capacity- Driver and a passenger. And either small family or a large amount of supplies and equipment.
Notes- A house crafted on a boat. Not an effective combat vehicle, but very useful for pleasure cruses or 
exploration. Also happens to be one of the more comfortable vehicles available.
Value- 25,000 - 100,000

Cargo Ship
Name- Oil Tanker
Engine- Diesel engine (3)
Minimum/Maximum Speed- 1 / 30 MPH
Fuel Tank Size- Large (50 gallon tanks) (10)

Location      Substance       DT    Blunt Laceration  Piercing 
Engine        Hardened Steel  1,600 750   1,000       750
Main Body     Hardened Steel  1,600 750   1,000       750
Cargo Hold    Aluminum        200   250   600         250
Window        Glass           5     2     40          8
Propeller (3) Aluminum        200   250   600         250

Hard Points- 3
Soft Points- 6
Cargo Capacity- As friends as you can gain and as many items you may gain. 
Notes- A gargantuan ship created to transport crude oil across the seas. The cargo hold is made to hold 
liquids, but may be modified to accommodate any number of possibilities. Also happens to be the largest 
vehicle available.
Value- 150,000 - 750,000

Small Personal Aircraft
Name- Small Personal Aircraft
Engine- Jet fuel engine
Minimum/Maximum Speed- 50 / 525 MPH
Fuel Tank Size- Large (50 gallon) (2)

Location    Substance DT  Blunt Laceration  Piercing 
Engine      Aluminum  200 250   600         250
Main Body   Aluminum  200 250   600         250
Cargo Hold  Aluminum  200 250   600         250
Window      Glass     5   2     40          8
Tail        Aluminum  200 250   600         250
Tire (3)    Rubber    50  145   160         80

Hard Points- 0
Soft Points- 2
Cargo Capacity- Driver and either a few passengers or a small amount of supplies.
Notes- A small aircraft that is very useful to get from point A to point B without taking either
the land or the sea.
Value- 100,000 - 2,500,000

Helicopter
Name- Helicopter
Engine- Jet fueled engine
Minimum/Maximum Speed- 50 / 500 MPH
Fuel Tank Size- Large (50 gallon) (3)

Location  Substance DT  Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Engine    Aluminum  200 205   600         260
Main Body Glass     5   2     40          8
Window    Glass     5   2     40          8

Hard Points- 1
Soft Points- 4
Cargo Capacity- Driver and a passenger, and either some small items or a few small items.
Notes- An observation helicopter with an all glass dome to allow the maximum amount of viewable area. Armor 
and most unnecessary parts have been removed to allow the most amount of fuel to be carried, and the greatest 
endurance of the fuel.
Value- 250,000 - 3,000,000

The Rules

What kind of game would there be if there were no rules? What is to come shortly is the
absolute meat and bones of the game. It is the part that is most boring and exciting at the same
time. So grab a comfortable seat dig in, because here they are.

Attributes
Attributes are what are the absolute basis of your character. Skills, equipment, and back-story
can be lived without. Attributes can not. The most important rule about attributes is that they
may NEVER go below 1 or above 10.
With that happy rule in mind, we next come up to how to use attributes in the game. In
situations where a skill doesn’t cover an action, then a character uses her attributes instead.
For example, you remember Example Joe. He wants to kick down a door. The myth-maker, to make Joe’s life
difficult, opts to have Joe use his Muscles instead of his Unarmed skill.
To roll a character’s attribute to leap tall buildings, seduce guards, create plans of action, or smell
the stink of defeat, is a simple process. First you take a 10 sided die and roll it. If the result is
equal to or under the attribute that you are using, then you succeed. If it’s over, the you fail.
Good luck with that falling, bumbling, planning, and stench....
So with good old Joe, to break down that door with a mighty kick, his player must roll below 3. Holding the 10
sided die carefully, the player casts the die. Unluckily for him, the roll comes up with a 7. Joe does more damage to
his own foot than the door. Perhaps next example he’ll succeed.

Skills
Everyone has their own skills and uses them to get through the day. A skill is a representation of
your knowledge in a given area.
All characters start off with measly skill percentages. Luckily for characters, these values
represent the character’s skills under pressure. During relaxed times, they need not roll for a skill.
It is assumed that they have enough time and reasoning to figure out how to do what they want
to.
On the other hand when characters are under stressful conditions, such as during combat, under
extreme deadlines, or with their supervisors looking over their shoulders, characters use their skill
values. These values represent a how well a character knows a given skill. After all, with enough
time and patience, anyone can do nearly anything. However during stressful times, characters
learn quickly how good they are at a particular skill.
To use a skill during a chaotic time characters select two different ten sided dice. One of the dice
is considered the ten’s value. The other die is considered the one’s value. The dice are rolled and
the number take their places.
For example, Joe has selected two ten sided dice, one black and one white. The black die Joe makes his tens. The
white die he makes his ones. Rolling for one of his skills, the black die rolls to 8. The white die rolls to 4. That
would give him a roll of 84.
To see if a character succeeds or fails a roll, first they roll their dice. If they get equal to or under
their skill’s percentage they succeed. If they role over the percentage, they fail. Is the pattern
becoming apparent?
So we will use Joe’s roll of 84. He is trying to punch a bratty bar patron in the chest. His Unarmed skill is
35%. Since 84 is more than 35, he fails to punch the bratty bar patron. Things aren’t looking too good for Joe.
Say for his next blow, Joe rolls a 35, or maybe a 15. Either of those rolls would be considered a success.

Modifiers
Not all tests of skill are performed in the perfect conditions, and with that in mind, there are skill
modifiers. Skill modifiers are a way of representing things that may help your character when
completing a skill. Such as a manual to help you fix a car, a sight for a gun, ect. Modifiers also
come negatively such as darkness, aiming at a small target, or being blinded, ect.
However you get a skill modifier, simply add it to your skill’s percentage if it helps your skill, or
subtract it from your skill’s percentage if it impairs you.
So using our friend Joe once more, he is now trying to drive his car far away from the bratty bar patron. Unluckily
that bar patron is chasing him and causing him quite a bit of worry. Luckily Joe got a decent set of tires for his
car, which add 10% to his roll to drive his car. Joe has a Drive skill of 45%. To drive away from the patron, he
needs to roll a 55 or lower (45% for his skill, +10% for the good tires). Maybe he shouldn’t pick so many fights,
and just stay in the car.

Critical Success
Critical Successes are when you happen to do a task exceptionally well. They happen from time
to time and they are pretty beneficial things indeed. Mechanically if you roll double numbers on
a skill test and the number is under the skill’s level, then it is considered a critical success. Such as
00% (which would be 0% and is always considered a critical success), or 66%.
If it is a normal skill, then you complete the task exceptionally well and the myth-maker is
advised to grant you a fantastic bonus to the task, be it stitching up a wound and having it heal
without any scars, fixing a car and making it run a lot faster, ect. When you get a critical success
in combat the attack can be anything from instantly killing a foe, to ignoring the target’s armor,
or any other extremely beneficial event the myth-maker wishes to grant you.
To explain we will return to good old Joe. He begins to drive away and takes a deep breath before rolling to drive
away from the irritable bar patron. Luck is with him, he rolls a 44 which is under his modified skill value of
55% (his 45% drive plus the +10% for his good tires). Thus he gets a critical success and drives away
exceptionally well.
A quick side note worth mentioning. Characters can’t ever critically succeed with attributes. it’s
not possible to roll doubles with one die. You also can not critically succeed at damage rolls.
Sorry about that.

Critical Failure
Critical failures are when you fail at something horribly. It isn’t a simple failure, it’s a horrible
one. It occurs when the character rolls a doubles on a skill test and the number is over the
character’s skill. Such as 77% or 99% (99% is always a critical failure). The myth-maker is
advised to make something horrible happen.
Some examples would be like a car that you are repairing is completely destroyed, a person’s
wound is made much worse rather than better while trying to stitch it closed. In combat it could
be anything from a critical success on a friend or ally, or the weapon self-destructing and harming
the user, or or any dreadful accident the myth-maker may wish to deal out.
To demonstrate this, we will pick on Joe some more. While driving away from the bar at break neck speeds, Joe
realizes that the bratty patron has a motorcycle and is now following him. To prevent himself from getting beaten to
a pulp, he elects to try and lose the peruser in some local alleys. He rolls his drive again, and to his dismay he rolls
a 99. A critical failure regardless of his skill. He takes a deep breath and awaits the upcoming pain.
Another quick side note worth mentioning. Characters can’t ever critically fail with attributes.
ever. once more one can not roll doubles while using only one die. Damage rolls also aren’t
something that you can critically fail at either.

Combat and Damage
Combat is a hellishly fast way of dealing with a given problem. The following are the rules for
combat.
Turns
First off, every combat situation is divided into turns. Each turn is around 10 seconds long. All
actions happen relatively simultaneously. But since it would be hard to play out everyone going
at once, each turn is subdivided into each person’s turn.
Initiative
Initiative is a mechanical way of determining whom gets to be the line leader. Although it was
just stated that it was simultaneous, people have to do their actions in some sort of order, and that
is where initiative comes into play. Any actions performed before a given person will effect them
before they are allowed to act out their turn.
The person who initiates the combat goes first. Then highest Initiative gets to perform her
actions next, then the person with the next highest initiative, and so on down the line. If two or
more people happen to have the same Initiative attribute, the have them roll a d10, and the
highest roll goes first, then the next highest, and so forth.
To illustrate the way Initiative works, we shall check in on Joe. After a nasty near wreck from his last example, the
bratty bar patron has opted to try and attack poor Joe. They compare their Initiative scores. Joe has a 4 for his
Initiative. The bar patron has a 3 for his Initiative. Joe goes first.
Actions
After you figure out who gets to go first, last, and in between, everyone is able to attempt what
they wish to. Actions are further divisions of a turn. It’s how many tasks you can do in one turn.
Be it run, jump, shoot, punch, reload, or press a button, they all use Actions, and different
amounts of them, depending on how long it would take to complete.
Joe has decided to demonstrate this by showing how many actions he has. His character has 2 for his actions. Joe
consults the following chart to see what he can do.
And now is another list, the one about action usage.
Walking- 1 per 1 ft.
Running- 1 per 3 ft.
Jumping- 2 per jump.
Punch- 1 per swing
Kick- 1 per kick
Knock Out- 2 per blow
Grapple- half your Actions to hold, can only test to get out if being held
Melee Attack (swing)- 1 per swing
Melee Attack ( stab)- 1 per stab
Melee Attack ( skewer)- 1 per skewer
Shooting or Throwing ( single shot)- 2 per shot
Shooting ( burst)- 3 per burst
Shooting ( full auto)- whole turn
Reloading- as per firearm
Driving- 1 per turn required, and possibly more per maneuver
Dodge- whole turn
Speaking/ Yelling- free
Saving- 1 to all
Any other Actions are to be determined by the myth-maker. Also if you want to take an action
that has a higher cost than you possess, you can complete the action over multiple turns, if it’s
within reason.

Action Descriptions
Now that you know how many Actions you may take in one turn, here’s what they mean, and
their rules.

Walking- Just in case you don’t feel up to running, or can’t.
> Can walk 1 foot per action spent.

Running- If you need to get away quickly, then running is the easiest way.
> Can run 3 feet per action point.

Jumping- To get over what ever may be in your way. Characters may jump double their
Muscles in feet. But you must add up the vertical and horizontal movement.
> Can jump for the amount specified.

Punch- This is using your arm to bring your fist into your target. There are no bonuses or
penalties.
> Melee Damage
> If successful hits the specified target.

Kick- This is the basic way of using your leg to move your foot to injure someone or something.
> +1d10 to your Melee Damage roll
> If successful hits the specified target.

Knock Out- This is making a living creature (that means no robots, zombies, doors, or anything
else that doesn’t live) become unconscious by inflicting trauma to it’s head. This is counted as an
aimed melee attack, meaning the character can use any melee weapons, that cause blunt damage,
they wish to including their fists, feet, or other parts of their bodies. It may not be used with any
ranged weapons.
> Only inflicts 1d10 damage regardless of Melee Damage
> 50% chance of causing unconscious with a successful strike
> Unconscious lasts for 1d10 hours

Grapple- This is just holding someone to prevent them from doing anything to anybody. If you
successfully “hit” your target you get a hold on them. It does no damage, but it prevents your
target from performing any Actions, other than testing to get out of your hold. It also uses up
half of your Actions. To escape from a grapple, you must roll under your Muscles attribute. To
release a grapple, you simply say so, but you still lose half of your action points for the turn.
> Does no damage, but restrains your target
> If successful, target may take no actions other than test (with their Muscles) to get out of the
hold.
> Attacker loses half of their actions to hold their target.
> Target must pass a Muscles test to break free.
> Attacker need only declare that they release their target.

Melee Attack (swing)- This is bringing a club, sword, or whatever melee weapon you may be
using around and trying to hit the person.
> Causes Laceration or Blunt damage
> If successful hits the specified target.
Melee Attack (Stab)- This is taking an item with a point and driving it into the target, then
pulling it out.
> Causes Piercing damage
> If successful hits the specified target.

Melee Attack (skewer)- This is taking an item with a point and driving it into a target, but
leaving it in for whatever nasty reasons. It leaves your weapon inside the target if you successfully
injure them.
> Causes Piercing damage
> If successful hits the specified target.
Shooting or Throwing (single shot)- This is firing a single shot. It is performed by nearly all
firearms.
> If successful hits the specified target.

Shooting (burst)- This is firing 3 bullets every time you pull the trigger. It is nearly the same as
a single shot, but you do 3x the damage, and use 3x the ammo.
> Damage x 3

Shooting (full auto)- This is firing off multiple bullets from your gun with a single squeeze of
the trigger. Full auto requires a full turn to fire. Fires off the amount of rounds under the rate of
fire.
> Damage equals the damage of a single round multiplied by however many rounds hit
> +25% to skill to hit.
> Uses as many rounds as listed for the weapon.

Reloading- This is putting more bullets into a gun. There is no roll, and it simply takes the
number of Actions specified under the weapons section.
> Putts more ammunition into a weapon.

Driving- This is using any vehicle and maintaining control of it. It requires one action point
per turn to simply keep the vehicle going in the direction that you wish it to go. Any offensive or
defensive maneuvers you wish to make take at least 1 additional action point, and may cost as
many as necessary depending on it’s complexity.
> Allows a character to maintain control of a vehicle.

Dodge- The fine art of avoiding blows and incoming attacks. Dodge requires a full turn to
anticipate the incoming attacks. If characters dodge, they subtract half of their dodge’s
percentage from the the attacker’s skill to strike them. Attacks that miss do no damage. Attacks
that strike the character are resolved as normal.
> Uses up all of a character’s actions for the turn they dodge.
> Subtracts all of the character’s dodge skill from the attacker’s skill to strike.

Speaking/Yelling- Sometimes telepathy just doesn’t work, so that’s why we can speak and yell.
In the heat of battle you may need to warn someone of their impending doom. Luckily you can
speak and/or yell all you wish (within reason) in a turn, at no cost. Remember that a turn is only
ten seconds long, so messages must be brief.
> May communicate with nearby people.

Saving- If you wish you can save your Actions for whatever you want to do. All it does is put
the Actions you wish to save below you in the order of Initiative. Saved points that aren’t used
before the end of a turn, are not to be carried over into the next turn.
> May interupt or perform actions after others later in the turn.
> Action points do not transfer between turns.

Damage
Now that you can do things in combat, let’s discuss hurting other things. It’s going to happen to
everyone, no matter how peaceful you may be. There are generally two ways to hurt someone.
The first is to beat them in melee combat. The other is to shoot them.

Melee Combat
Interested in bring pain and death to others, huh? Well if you like to be right up there in the
action and see all the gristly details, then bashing your target with some good ol’ melee combat is
just what you need. That or a good therapist. Melee combat involves you being very up close to
your target. Close enough to reach out and touch them. In melee combat you can use anything
at hand to take care of your foe. Be it a fist, foot, 2x4, sword, or this very book itself. Keep
reading to find the secret of how to melee combat it up.
You can start by picking your target. After your target is picked, choose which method of attack
and note the skill it’s associated with.
We will be securing the services of a fellow by the name of Example Joe. Now Joe is a pretty average fellow. The
only thing is that he tends to get unruly when he drinks. Thus is where we find him. Joe has drunk too much and
has started to pick a fight with a fellow bar patron. Joe reaches for his trusty switch blade knife in his boot and
decides to use it on the bar patron. He’s going to slash the patron in the right arm. Joe isn’t anything ground
breaking in the ways of knife fighting so his Small Melee Weapon skill is sitting at 35%.
Next you determine which bonuses and penalties apply to this particular attack. Add the value of
the bonuses to your skill to hit. Of course you must also subtract the value of penalty from your
skill as well.
So Joe begins to count on his fingers and toes to figure out what kind of bonuses and penalties he is going to have to
deal with to successfully slash this mouthy bar patron. Firstly the target itself is considered a Medium Sized target,
so he suffers a penalty of 15% to his skill. That makes it 20%. Then he realizes that he is right on top of the
bar patron which counts as Point Blank Range. That adds 35% to his skill making it a much better 50%. He
then considers the environment. It’s a dark and smokey bar, but not that dark and smokey. So Joe does not have to
subtract any for those environmental problems. Neither the bar patron nor Joe are moving at all, so speed penalties
are not present. Finally the bar patron is not hiding behind anything so there is no cover penalty. Thus Joe has a
50% chance to hit the bar patron in the arm.
Time to roll the dice. If your number is higher than your modified skill (which you just figured
out in the previous step) then alas you miss. Nothing further happens. If you’re lucky enough to
roll equal to or less than your modified skill then you hit your target.
Joe throws the dice down and he is amazed to find the results. The first die reads, “20” and the second die reads,
“9”. Adding those results gives him his result of “29”. 29 being pretty far below his target of 50, Joe is
successful in hitting the bar patron’s right arm.
If your attack successfully struck your target then you roll the damage indicated. Remember,
your character’s Melee Damage attribute is the amount of damage your character does with their
bare fists. Specialized attacks (such as knock out blows and kicks) may have more or less damage.
Also melee weapons add their damage to your Melee Damage.
Example Joe is a bit of a wuss and as such his Melee Damage is only 1d10. Also he isn’t using a particularly
deadly melee weapon, which does Melee Damage+5. So whatever Joe rolls for his melee damage, when he uses his
knife, he adds 5 to the roll. To demonstrate Joe rolls the damage for his slash to the bar patron’s right arm. Joe
rolls a 7. Add the knife’s +5 damage to the roll and Joe’s slash does 12 points of damage to the bar patron’s right
arm.
If the damage rolled for the attack is less than the armor, the subtract it from the armor’s value
and that’s the end. If your attack’s damage exceeds your target’s armor, then the excess damage
is taken from the targeted location’s Flesh.
So the bar patron is wearing a simple black hoodie which is considered to be Regular Clothing. The Laceration
Resistance for cloth is 8. So seeing how Joe rolled a 12 for his damage, Joe’s slash cuts right through the thin little
hoodie and injures the bar patron.
At long last if the target suffers 10 points of damage or more to their Flesh in one turn, then they
begin to suffer the effects of blood loss. If your target is unlucky enough to have their targeted
location reduced to zero Flesh then bad things happen. In the case of an extremity such as the
arms and legs then the character begins to suffer massive blood loss due to the severed limb. If
the target is extremely unlucky and it happens to be the head or torso then they depart this world
in a most painful method.
Well the bar patron has to suffer some damage for this example. As you recall Example Joe struck the bar patron
for 12 points of damage, yet the bar patron’s hoodie absorbed 8 points. So doing a little simple math that means
that the bar patron has to take 4 points of damage to his arm. Luckily the bar patron has 10 Flesh in his arms.
So after the first slash the bar patron has 6 Flesh left in his Right Arm. Luckily he isn’t suffering any extreme
blood loss damage nor has the arm been cut all the way off. Unluckily Joe still has a trick or two up his violent
sleeve.

Ranged Combat
So you say you don’t like to be up close and personal to your target? Well then the natural
solution is to attack your target from afar with a ranged weapon. Ranged weapons are
considered anything that moves from you to your target through the air. That includes the ever
popular bullets, classic arrows, thrown beer bottles, and even the rare hurled team mate. To send
these projectiles on their way you either need to throw them or use a weapon to send them on
over. The process for ranged attacks are as follows.
First begin by selecting your target and identifying which skill is going to be used to hit your
target.
Seeing how the knife in the previous example didn’t quite do the job for Example Joe, he decides to break out the big
guns. Joe busts out his trusty crossbow. Joe is a fair shot with the crossbow though, with an Archery skill of
30%. He also decides to shoot for the patron’s Torso instead of a trickier shot.
Then decide which bonuses and penalties are to be applied to your shot. Add the bonuses to
your character’s skill and subtract the penalties from your character’s skill.
Once again Joe consults his fingers and possibly his toes to calculate the bonuses and negatives he must deal with.
This time the bar patron has some kind of warning about Joe’s devilish plans. As such he hides behind an
upturned table. So that reduces Joe’s skill by 25% making it a measly 5%. Luckily Joe does not suffer any
penalty for shooting at the patron’s Torso. Another positive thing is the range is still considered Point Blank, so he
gains 35% to his skill making his final modified skill to hit the bar patron 40%.
Roll the dice. If the number that comes up is higher than your modified skill (which you figured
out in the last step) you miss. Sorry, nothing further happens to your target. If the number is
equal to or or less than your modified skill then you have hit your target.
This time Joe happens to roll a 30 on the first die and a 9 on the second die. A narrow hit for sure. But a hit none
the less.
If your attack struck your target, then take some more dice and roll the damage listed for the
ammunition you used.
Joe using a crossbow uses the damage value listed for the ammunition fired from his crossbow. That ammo being
bolts. Accordingly Joe takes 1d10 and rolls it giving him a result of 3. Crossbow bolts do damage of 1d10x2 so
Joe multiplies his impressive 8 by 2 and gets his damage of 16 to the bar patron’s Torso. Maybe he should have
stuck with the knife.
Subtract the damage you rolled from the target’s armor. If the damage you rolled is less than the
armor, then your target is spared damage by their armor.
That tricky bar patron is still just wearing an old black hoodie and as such it’s Piercing Resistance is 2. As such
the crossbow bolt goes clean through his jacket without any pause and strikes the patron heavily in the chest.
If the damage you rolled exceeded the target’s armor then you get to subtract the excess damage
from the location’s Flesh.
The bar patron is going to feel this in the morning for sure. Thankfully the Flesh of his chest is 40. Subtract the
damage of 14 from the bar patron’s Torso’s flesh of 40 to give you his remaining flesh of 26.
Finally if the damage of the attack is over 10 points the target begins to suffer from blood loss. If
your attack reduces the location to zero then the target is in serous trouble. Limbs like the arms,
legs, and associated extra extremities will cause the target to suffer from a much higher amount of
blood loss for severed limbs. If the location was the head or torso, then the target begins to take a
dirt nap.
Seeing how the damage applied to the bar patron’s Torso was over 10 points, he starts to bleed pretty heavily. Today
is not a good day for him. Starting after the next turn has passed Joe loses 1 Flesh from his torso ever other turn
until he can stop the flow of blood from his chest.
Furthermore the bar patron is without any protection from Laceration damage on his Right Arm, as well as no
Piercing protection on his chest. Any new slashes to his Right Arm or shots to his Torso will get no benifit from
armor what so ever. It’s kaput.

Armor
Now that you know how to beat and shoot anyone, some specifics should be mentioned about
preventing yourself from kicking the bucket. Armor is the main protection from that kind of
thing. What is to shortly follow is some information about how to deal with that wonderful
protective armor.
Only one layer of armor counts. As such you will naturally want to choose your best protective
value to absorb the damage. Selection happens before combat, no double layering armor. Such
as wearing a bullet proof vest and using it’s Piercing resistance yet also a metal breast plate and
using it’s Laceration resistance.
Once more we’ll bring our buddy Example Joe in to illustrate. This time he’s got a terrible hangover, so worry not
about him getting violent again. Let’s instead take a closer look at his armor situation. Joe likes style so he wears a
classic black leather biker jacked with an old band tee shirt underneath. Even though the band does rock it’s
protection sucks. As such Joe only wears the shirt for comfort and he uses the leather jacket’s resistances when he
gets in situations. If he should find that his jacket becomes useless (AKA all of one particular damage resistance is
used up) then he does not gain any benifit from the shirt. It’s assumed that whatever blows that ended the jacket’s
usefulness were suffecient enough to render the shirt useless as well.

Attack Modifiers
Size
Gigantic (Oil tanker, city block)- +50%
Huge (House, trailer)- +25%
Large (Car, truck)- +5%
Normal (People, cows)- No modifier
Medium (Arms, legs)- -15%
Small (Heads, tires)- -30%
Tiny (Eyes, bulls eye)- -60%
Miniscule (Dots on a die)- -120%

Range
Point Blank (Can smell their breath)- +50%
Short (Can make out facial details)- +25%
Moderate (Can tell the type of clothing)- No modifier
Long (Can make out limbs)- -25%
Extreme (Can actually see target)- -50%

Speed Differences
Same Speed- No modifier
Minor (10 - 35 MPH Difference)- -10%
Moderate (40 - 75 MPH Difference)- -25%
Major (80 - 150 MPH Difference)- -50%
Gigantic (155 + MPH Difference)- -75%

Environmental
Darkness- -30%
Pitch Black- -60%
Bright Lights- -20%
Blinding Lights- -40%
Loud Noises- -20%
Deafening Noises- -40%
Smoke- -35%
Gunshots (without ear protection)- -25%
Gun smoke- -20%

Cover
1/4 Target Obscured- -25%
1/2 Target Obscured- -50%
3/4 Target Obscured- -75%
Target Fully Obscured- -90%

Personal
Blinded- -90%
Deafened- -35%

So now you see it’s a little harder to hit your target than you though. But don’t fret, because your
the main character of the story, so you have to survive, right?

Minimum Muscles
Nearly every weapon, be it a fire axe, machine gun, or a chain saw, has a Minimum Muscles
required to properly wield the weapon. If you have have equal to or above the minimum
percentage in your Muscles, then you don’t have anything to worry about. If you have under the
percentage, then you start to run into trouble. You suffer a -25% to the skill used to wield the
weapon to strike.

Random Hit Locations
Not all hits land quite where you want them to. Or you just don’t care where it is to land, just so
long as it hits somewhere. Most normal attacks will simply hit the target’s body. But if you wish
to shoot wildly or not take time to aim, then here is the random location hit chart.
Head- 88% - 100%
Right Arm- 75% - 87%
Left Arm- 64% - 76%
Body- 34% - 64%
Right Leg- 17% - 33%
Left Leg- 1% - 16%

Alternate Damages
Sometimes you just don’t feel up to stabbing, shooting, or beating someone. That’s where these
alternate forms of damage come in. Enjoy.

Blood Loss- Blood loss is a silent killer. Most people don’t realize that it is such a bad thing,
until they are nearly dead from it. That being said, here’s the rules for blood loss and all of it’s
fun.
After the damage is calculated from an attack, meaning after you subtract the armor’s defense is
subtracted, every 10 points of damage that a character suffers causes 1 point of blood loss. A
point of blood loss means that every other turn the character loses 1 Hit Point from their body’s
flesh. This loss goes on until the character either properly binds or cauterizes the wound, or
every five minutes (30 turns) the character naturally heals one point of blood loss.
Severed limbs are a little different. Severed limbs no matter how much trauma was inflicted
always automatically earn 10 blood loss points in addition to any other blood loss the character
might have incurred while losing that limb or from other wounds.
> For every 10 flesh lost in a single attack the character suffers 1 point of blood loss.
> Every blood loss point saps 1 flesh from the character’s body every turn.
> Severed limbs add 10 blood loss points to a character regardless of previous wounds.
> Blood can be stopped immediately by being bound up (basic medicine roll) or by being
cauterized by a burning hot object.
> A character’s body will naturally cauterize 1 point of blood loss every five minutes (or 30
turns).

Fire- Fire, if given enough time will kill anything. Here are the associated rules for fire damage.
If a character is wearing a type of armor that is flammable or meltable, then when they are hit
with fire or excessive heat they have a 75% chance of their clothes or armor catching fire. If they
do catch fire, then every turn victim receives 1d10 damage on account of the fire eating away at
their flesh, muscles and such. Fire also ignores armor, unless it has either a heat reduction or an
heats up special note. The fire will remain on the person so long as there is something to feed the
fire. To put out the blaze the victim must roll under 50%. People helping them put out the blaze
add +10% to the difficulty of the roll, but only the victim rolls it.
> If character runs through a fire or is attacked by a fire based weapon, they have a 75% chance
of catching fire.
> Every turn characters receive 1d10 points of damage to every location that is on fire per turn.
> Fire damage always ignores armor.
>To put out fire, every turn that the person on fire has can only try to put out the blaze. To put
the blaze out they must roll 50% or lower. Any assistance adds a bonus of +10% to the difficulty,
making it easier to be put out.

Poison- Poison is the weapon of a quiet assassin. No matter how the poison is delivered, when
it is successfully introduced into the victim, they try to roll under their Disease Resistance in
increments that depend on the poison itself. Once the victim rolls under their Disease Resistance,
they purge the poison from their bodies but not before suffering damage one last time. If the
character fails the roll, the poison will run it’s course and damage them. This continues until the
poison either runs it’s course, it is resisted, an antidote is administer, or it kills the target.
> Once poison is introduced characters must roll equal to or under their disease resistance in
increments determined by the poison.
> If the disease resistance roll fails, the characters suffer damage equal to the strength of the
poison. They must then take another disease roll when the time increment has passed.
> If characters succeed their disease roll, they suffer damage one last time, but the poison is
purged from their bodies. No further damage or disease resistance rolls are required for the
poison.
> If a character receives the proper antidote for the poison, then it is immediately ceased and
does no further damage.

Radiation- Radiation is very nasty. There are no known cures for radiation poisoning, with the
exception being the Syrum. It is a long, disgusting, and painful murderer. It could take weeks,
days, hours, or minutes, but it almost always ends up killing you in the end. After the duration
passes (which is specified under the dose amount) a character takes a disease test. Success means
no penalty. Failure means they suffer the deduction from a random physical attributes until one
falls down to zero. Once that happens, they finally die. The specifics follow.

Small Dose (depleted uranium wound, spending a lot of time with Rotter)-
> -1 per year from a random physical attribute.
Moderate Dose (fallout from nuclear weapon, roaming in a uranium mine)-
> -1 per month from a random physical attribute.
> Characters begin to become very nauseous.
Rules
131

Large Dose (playing near nuclear crater, wearing a flawed NBC suit in a radioactive zone)-
> -1 per week from a random physical attribute.
> Characters have great difficulty keeping any food or drink in them.
> Character’s hair also begins to fall out.

Massive Dose (playing in active nuclear reactor, handling uranium rods)-
> -1 per day from a random physical attribute.
> Characters can do little other than vomit.
> Hair falls out in great chunks until characters are bald.
> Radiation burn lesions begin to develop.

Knock Down- Being knocked down is when a character loses her balance and falls to the
ground due to a blow that she received. Knock down is pretty simple, if the character receives
over 25 points of damage from a single attack, then they are knocked on their asses. This is
applied before armor reduces the damage. To get up the characters must spend 3 action points.
> If a character receives 25 or more points of damage, (before armor reduces it), they are
knocked to the ground.
>Requires 3 actions to stand back up.

Vehicular Damage- Attacking a vehicle is very similar to attacking a person. Vehicles often
have some form of armor on (but not always) and the vital parts have a Damage Threshold (DT)
which is the same as a character’s Flesh. Whenever a vehicle is attacked, all the bonuses and
penalties to hit the vehicle are calculated and modify the skill to hit the vehicle. If the attack is
successful, then it strikes the targeted location, a random location, or it strikes the main body.
Any armor that the vehicle is equipped with for that location reduces the damage by the amount
indicated. Finally the damage is subtracted from the location’s DT.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Engine Area must penetrate the Engine’s armor, then it
damages the Engine itself.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Main Body Area must penetrate the Main Body’s armor then
it damages the Frame itself.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Cargo Hold Area must penetrate the Cargo Hold’s armor
then it damages either the Fuel Tank or possibly any cargo stored inside.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Window Area must penetrate the Window’s armor, then it
damages the characters inside. Characters are allowed their own armor saves if they wear any,
and the armor of the windows reduces the damage as well as the character’s own armor.
> The Other Area varies depending on the vehicle and is handled as the rest of the vehicle.

Healing
Now that you are hurt, it’s time to try to heal the damage. Most people fail to realize that nearly
every form of medicine simply stops the body from dying, then allows it to heal itself. So if you
are looking for a healing potion, or a spell to heal, look somewhere else. It’s not going to be here,
not without a dire price at least. If you want instant healing, then try taking the Syrum, it’ll do it,
but at what price?
The following are the mechanics of what the medical skills do to a character. It might be noted,
since the mutants are so prevalent, all medical skills also include a few other skills, such as botany,
veterinarian practices, and other such fields, so you do not incur a negative to your skill due to
mutated patients. People generally have a decent idea as how to deal with the myriad of
mutations.

Basic Medicine- Basic medicine is the field of preventing immediate death. It can’t do much
more than stop bleeding, set broken bones and sometimes stop internal bleeding. Basic medicine
is usually used to keep a person alive long enough so that she may get to a proper medical
establishment, or into a dark enough hole so that she may lick her wounds to heal.
Basic medicine may,
> Stop external bleeding,
> Perform CPR to get the patients heart beating again,
> Set broken bones so that they may heal properly,
> Slow poisons,
> Stop internal bleeding so long as it doesn’t require advanced surgery,
> Apply the proper bracing materials to prevent further trauma from a spinal injury and/or a
compound fracture.

Advanced Medicine- Advanced medicine is the field that deals more with the long-term care
of a person. It has little to no use in the middle of a fire fight. It must usually be performed in a
quiet place with little or no distractions, and the proper tools. Luckily people can adapt, since a
quiet place and the proper tools are a rare thing indeed.
Advanced medicine may,
> Perform advanced surgery to stop internal bleeding,
>Aid in the healing of already patched up wounds,
> Guide bones to heal properly,
> Treat Poisons,
> Counteract the effects of old age to some degree,
> Assist people in kicking addictions to substances,
> Perform cosmetic surgery,
> Perform surgery to correct some mutations,
> Treat diseases.

Pharmacy- Pharmacy is a different field altogether. It deals with the medicines that are given
for any cures. It is used to identify possible medicines, or an equivalent remedy if the proper
prescription isn’t available. It can also be used to identify performance enhancing substances that
would increase your natural abilities.
Pharmacy may,
> Identify medicines and/or drugs,
> Prescribe medicines to aid in healing times,
> Prescribe drugs to enhance your attributes,
> Find substitute medicines and/or drugs with similar effects if the proper ones aren’t available.

Healing Times
Since you can’t use any miracle drugs (the Syrum will be discussed later) you are going to have to
rely upon your bodies natural healing so that you can return to your normal health. Here are the
healing times for everyone.
Head- 1 flesh every OTHER day.
Body- 3 flesh per day.
Arms- 1 flesh per day.
Legs- 2 flesh per day.
Skin- 1 Absorb point to every location and type of absorbation.
It should be mentioned that the associated medical skills can help with these measly times.
> Basic Medicine does not augment the body's natural healing times, but it may keep a character
from dying immediately.
> Advanced Medicine can double the amount healed in one day.
> Pharmacy depends on what drug is given, see the items section for drugs.
These times are only for days that are spent relaxing and not doing any strenuous activities. If
any such activities are performed, the day’s healing is lost and do not add to the character’s flesh.
While resting though, all of the character’s body heals. Not just a single location at a time.

The Syrum
When the plague hit the world, scientists and doctors everywhere raced for a cure. When the
cure came out, it was called The Syrum, or Syrum. Time was a large issue, so extensive field
testing and long-term effects were not bothered with. People killed each other and rioted for the
Syrum. When they got it, it was a lot more than they bargained for. The specifics of how it
works have been lost, or hidden away, but everyone knows how it works generally. It enhances
the immune system and the healing aspects of the body to superhuman limits. People would
regenerate missing limbs, heal massive wounds, and be cured of all diseases within an hour or so.
Unluckily when the people awoke the next morning, they were horrible deformations of what
they used to be.
If you had a meal before you took the Syrum, your body mistook the genetic material in the food
as your own genetic material, so it spliced them together, making half-animal, half-person beasts.
If you smoked after taking the Syrum, your body mistook carbon monoxide for a gas that was
vital to your survival, so that’s all that your lungs would process, killing you quickly.
Those that survived the physical trauma, mental trauma, and the increased love for suicide, tried
to live out their days. Freaks and mutants banned together (which was easy considering almost
everyone was freakish in one aspect or another) and they fell in love and had children. After a
generation or two it was guessed that the mutations were imbedded on a genetic level,
considering their children and their children’s children had the same flaws that they did.
Everyone discovered that there were certain groups of people that had similar deviations in their
genetic codes, and they began to group together. These groups became a sort of extended family
and with every generation, their genetic code began to steady out. That is how the stable genetic
strain came into being.
As it goes, the governments created a surplus of this stuff and left it with all of the other lethal
“toys”. The children’s children were curious, so they tried the Syrum. They found out that it
doesn’t expire, and it still healed wounds, diseases, poisons and missing limbs. It also made them
more freakish than they already were. So if a character comes upon the Syrum, if they wish they
may use it. If they decide to take it, the effects are as follows...
> Fully heals all of a characters lost flesh in 5 minutes
> Cures all foreign poisons in the body in 5 minutes
> Cures all diseases in 10 minutes
> Purges all Radiation from system in 15 minutes
> Regenerates lost limbs in 30 minutes
> Adds 1d10 mutations in 24 hours

Vehicle Rules
Here are the specific rules for operating a vehicle under combat, and doing things that aren’t
what the vehicle is rated to do.
Vehicles and Combat
Given the rare nature of vehicles, most that are able to find, repair, and fuel their vehicles take
great care in equipping them to protect their investments. It is nearly impossible to find an
unaltered vehicle around. Some have heavy armor plates welded to them to protect their
precious cargos. Others have a king’s ransom worth of weapons attached to them to destroy any
stupid enough to attempt to overtake them. Still others are given more efficient and powerful
engines to blaze past anyone pursuing them. And nearly every vehicle has some sort of booby
trap built into it to disable, maim, or kill anyone foolish enough to mess around with it.

Armor
It’s pretty easy to take any local materials and attach them to a vehicle to serve as armor. As
such, most vehicles have at least one layer of armor on them. The limit for layers of armor is the
same as for people. No more than two layers of armor per location for the vehicle.
When an armored vehicle is attacked it is performed as with personal armor. If the attack strikes
an armored part, the armor absorbs the damage the same way as a person’s armor. It just
usually absorbs much more thanks to thicker armor. Any damage that is above the armor’s
protection value is distributed to whatever unlucky soul or device may be cowering behind it.

Damaging Vehicles
Armor does not always grant invulnerability. So when an attack pierces a vehicle’s armor, it
damages whatever may be underneath. The vital parts of vehicles do not possess Flesh like
people do to represent the amount of damage it can take. Vehicles have Damage Threshold or
DT. It represents the amount of damage an object can receive become it becomes inoperative.

Weapons
Armor can only defend you so much from roaming marauders, so many install weapons onto
their vehicles. Any weapon available may be mounted onto a vehicle. As a matter of fact, a few
weapons must be mounted to either immobile emplacements, or on vehicles.
Vehicles have two types of weapons that can be mounted on them. The first would be weapons
mounted to Soft Points. They include pistols, rifles, and any personal sized melee weapons.
Hard Points are used for the larger weapons, such as support firearms, gigantic melee weapons,
and cannons.
To install a weapon onto a vehicle, one must either find someone to install it, or roll Mechanical.
With a success, the weapon is installed. If any form of remote firing system or moving mount is
desired, it requires another Mechanical roll to install. To use the weapon, it the character must
simply roll the appropriate skill if it is a ranged weapon. Any melee weapons attached can only
be used by the driver during various maneuvers. They would use their Driving skill as opposed to
the appropriate melee weapon skill.

Vehicular Maneuvers
Driving at safe speeds on well established roads is a simple task. Thus it requires no rolls to
perform, with the exception for a single control roll (such as flying or driving) to start up the
vehicle properly. Unluckily many see vehicles as something to be attacked for whatever cargo
may be inside. To avoid attacks from people and other vehicles there are maneuvers that can be
performed to avoid damage as well as inflicting some. They are as follows.

Speeding- Most of the time you just don’t want to go the normal safe speed when people are
chasing you and trying to kill you. If you wish to go faster, you must take a skill test every turn.
If you succeed, you may go up to double the maximum speed. If you fail, you lose control.
> May travel up to double the maximum speed, but must take a skill test every turn.
> Failure means losing control of the vehicle.
> Success means keeping control of the vehicle.

Losing Control- Sometimes you just can’t keep control of your vehicle, when that happens,
you lose control. If you fail an operation skill for a vehicle, you swerve to a random direction,
and your speed randomly fluctuates.
> Any time a character fails a control roll for a vehicle they lose control of the vehicle.
> Losing control of a vehicle makes it swerve in a random direction and your speed either raises
or falls in a random fashion.
> Every turn driver may attempt to regain control of the vehicle.
> Success means that they regain control and may perform actions the next turn.
> Failure means that the characters can do nothing except for freak out and try to regain control.

Crashing- If you happen to lose control and hit an object, you crash. It effetely stops all of
your speed immediately. All passengers suffer 1d10 for every 10 mph the vehicle was traveling to
their bodies. The vehicle takes 1d10 times the speed that it was traveling at in damage to the
location that did the hitting.
> Happens when a vehicle out of control runs into another object.
> All passengers suffer 1d10x 1/10 the speed of the vehicle to their bodies.
> Vehicle suffers 1d10x 1/10 the speed of the vehicle to the location that did the crashing.

Ramming- This is when you get too much road-rage, and decide to do damage to a object,
vehicle, or person with your vehicle. The vehicle being rammed suffers 1d10x the difference in
two vehicle’s speeds. The vehicle ramming suffers 1d10x 1/2 the difference in speeds between
the vehicles.
> Object being rammed suffers 1d10x the difference in speed damage to the location being
rammed.
> Vehicle ramming suffers 1d10x 1/2 the difference in speed damage to the location doing the
ramming.

Sideswiping- This is when someone is driving next to you and you want them to get out of
your blind-spot quickly. The driver doing the swiping takes a skill roll to keep control, and the
vehicle receives 1d10 damage to the body. The driver that gets swiped, must make a skill roll
with a -25% penalty to their skill. The vehicle getting swiped receives 2d10 damage to it’s body.
> Vehicle doing the sideswiping must take a control roll or lose control
> Vehicle doing the swiping suffers 1d10 damage to it’s body.
> The vehicle being sideswiped must take a control roll with a -25% penalty.
> The vehicle being sideswiped suffers 2d10 damage.

Fuel Consumption- Most vehicles requires fuel to function. The exception would be primitive
vehicles that run off of the muscles of the user. Certain vehicles use certain fuels, and they can
not use different forms of fuel, unless you really want to replace the engine with an engine that
consumes another type.
Every fuel is consumed at a different rate, based upon what it is being used in, the efficiency of
the engine, the weight the vehicle is carrying, ect. To prevent players from having to learn
advanced mathematics, fuel consumption has been simplified a bit. First you find out how many
gallons you have in your tank. Then you roll the normal damage for one gallon of fuel, then
multiply it by the number of gallons that you have in the tank. That will give you how many
miles you can travel with how much fuel you have in your tank.
> Fuel damage rolled x Number of Gallons = How Many Miles In the Tank.
Fuel “Damage”
Gasoline- 2d10 x 1d10
Ethyl Alcohol- 2d10 x 1d10
Diesel- 1d10 x 1d10
Bio Diesel- 1d10 x 2
Jet Fuel- 4d10 x 1d10
Electric engines can drive 1 mile for every 10 volts of electricity consumed.
Repairing Vehicles
If your vehicle receives damage, you may try to repair it. A simple Mechanical roll is required to
repair the vehicle. Every hour spent working on the vehicle with a successful Mechanical test
repairs 10 DT.
> Repairing vehicles requires a Mechanical skill test.
> Every successful Mechanical skill test and hour spent working on the vehicle repairs 10 DT.

Experience
Since you have lived through all the trials and tribulations of life, you deserve a reward for your
hard work. That comes in the form of experience. It is a mechanical way of measuring how
much your character has developed and learned over her life.
For every action you attempt, and complete, for every plan you devise, functioning and otherwise,
for every person you save, you get experience. Since some actions mature you more than others,
you can get more experience for some actions than others.

Gaining Experience
Since you know how high you can go, you want to know how to get there. Well here is the chart
for gaining experience. This is for every action you get. It may not seem to be too much just yet,
it does add up, and quickly.
Using skill (and failing)- 2
Using skill (and succeeding)- 1
Defeating a weaker foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 5
Defeating an equal foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 20
Defeating a superior foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 50
Defeating an impossible foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 100
Completing a job or task- 25
Coming up with a worthless plan- 10
Coming up with a decent plan- 20
Coming up with a good plan- 40
Coming up with a great plan- 80
Coming up with a phenomenal plan- 160
Saving a person- 5
Saving a small group of people (2-15)- 2 x person
Saving a large group of people (16+)- 1x person
Dooming a small group of people (2-15)- 2 x person
Dooming a large group of people (16+)- 1 x person
Risking your own life (and failing at the task, but living)- 50
Risking your own life (and succeeding at the task, and living)- 100
Risking your own life (and dying)- You Lose.
Getting players together- 30
Keeping group together- 15

Spending Experience
Once characters play for a bit and learn the finer points of living in this world, they gather a
large pile of experience. Characters should keep a running total of their total experience just to
keep as some sort of reference to other characters and such. They should also keep a running
total of the amount of experience they have not used to improve their characters.
Yes that’s right, characters spend their experience like money to but better skills and attributes for
their characters. Way back, you took the time to make derived attributes that give you the cost of
improving your character. So the following will demystify those two attributes a little more.

Skill Cost- The cost for improving your skills depends on how much brain power you possess.
The more powerful your brain, the easier it is to improve skills. So it’s not just brawn that helps
you survive the day.
> Skill Cost- 20 - Learnable.

Attribute Cost- So it would logically follow that if your brain is for skills, then your body is for
attributes. The better your character’s metabolism is, the faster that it can upgrade itself and
renew it’s parts. So...
> Attribute Cost- 1,000 - (50 x Metabolism)

Myth-Maker Assistance

Here’s a little help for the most difficult role one can take. So here it is.

Player deaths
So you’re ready to be big myth-maker, huh? Well as important as the myth-maker is, the game is
much less exciting without the players themselves. So this section is dedicated to task of
preventing the untimely and unpleasant act of player’s deaths. It should be noted that it is
undesireable, people do die, adventurers most of all. yet if done properly a player’s death can be
the apex of a great character’s life. It’s the difference between valliantly sacrificing your life to
save the world versus getting knifed in the back by some two bit mugger. Food for thought.
NPC’s (Non Player Characters) are the number one character killer. Remember that though you
have to control masses of them, each NPC is all unique in their own way. They happen to be
people themselves, with wants, desires, and needs. As such there are not many people that will
mindlessly kill another person for no good reason. Detaining, harrassing, and a good old beating
are much easier to persuade a person into doing. But killing requires someone to do some heavy
persuading, and who’s calling doing the persuading? What measure of power does their puppet
master have over their puppet? Could the players perhaps use this manipulation to their own
advantage? Villains should not be willing to risk their own death for just anything. Some usual
methods of eliciting a deadly response would be; the threat of death to themselves or their loved
ones, large heaps of money, manipulated insanity, or protection of a beloved institution. As such,
NPC’s should probably use at less than lethal attacks until it is desperatly necessary.
Players should also be offered plenty of opertunities to retreat from a deadly threat. Being
trapped in a corner always provokes a more aggressive response. Don’t be afraid to be less than
subtle with your hints either. While there should be an option for retreat, you don’t have to make
it the best option. It’s a dangerous and scary thing to turn your back on people who seek to make
you dead. But sometimes they just can’t win or even come to a survivable comprimise, the
characters may have to bite the bullet and make a dash for it. After all the hero that retreats
today lives to fight another day.
It is also a good thing to remember that players are not inside of your head. That would make a
really lame and unexciting game. What I mean is players won’t always think of the “obvious”
solution to a given problem. So if you are going to run a game with a very specific solution, be
prepaired to offer many obvious hints. Either that or be ready for a lot of bored and puzzled
players. The best way around this problem is to allow a lot of wiggle room for your players to
choose their own adventures. Not to the point of letting them run around with impunity but
allow more options than you can come up with.
On that very subject of player’s intelligence, they will probably make a few stupid mistakes. For
small mistakes just let them slide or gently correct them. Such as rolling small melee weapons to
beat a person with a pair of brass knuckles. Just remind the character that, though they’re armed,
it’s actually an unarmed attack. On the other hand doing things obviously foolish, such as
getting a discount at a store by threatening to kill the shop keeper, requires a different strategy.
Give the characters a last chance to change their minds about what they’re about to do. If they
don’t come to their senses roll with it. It could be the beginning of a wonderful and grand story
line you couldn’t have come up with on your own. That or it could end with the player’s
character dying. Though you always have the option to intervene and instead of killing off a
character you could simply maim them. Pain is a great teacher, and players can be remarkably
empathetic to their characters. Hurt their characters badly and chances are they won’t do what
caused them trouble in the first place. Unluckily you must resort to extreme measures when a
player has their heart set on acting like a fool. So in extreme cases it may require taking limbs
instead of lives.
The final thing i wanted to mention on the subject of character deaths isn’t necessarily about
their deaths. Imagine a player that has survived unimaginable trials, defeated epic foes, gained
even more epic items, and even saved civilization itself from the clutches of whatever evil.
There’s a point where a player should just let their character go and reset things. If the player is
resistant to a new character you could even have a whole nerd-tastic “passing of the torch” from
one character to the newer replacement. Complete with a ceremony you play out in it’s entirety.
That failing, just send assassins in the night to kill the character in question.

Non-player characters
So now that you know how to keep players alive, let’s discuss the non-player characters (NPC’s).
The overall point is that the NPC’s, despite being cannon fodder, are still people with
motovations, desires, wants, fears, and the whole range of humanity. It would be far too taxing
to play every single person in the world fully. So it is only necessary to give the illusion of such
to most NPC’s. Such treatment should be reserved for special villains. This attention to detail
isn’t suggested for friendly NPC’s. Doing so runs the risk of making the NPC’s the center of
attention when the players should be.
While you’re breathing life into your NPC’s, be sure to add in some flairs that can be used.
Details like a love for whittling, an annoying habit to whistle, wife and kids, or any other things
that make a person a person. These aspects can help the players connect to the NPC’s. It can
also give the players options to gain leverage on NPC’s. While this may be unpleasant i should
mention that the players are heavily outnumbered by the rest of the world and any advantage
helps them survive a little longer.
While discussing leverage over NPC’s there is a common method of manipulating them that has
some long term troubles. Bribes work fantastically to in the short term to get what players want.
The problem is if the players run into the same NPC, that NPC will know that they players will
offer money to the players for whatever reason. “Gee why not make a some extra cash again and
ask for more money this time.” more than likely goes through their head. So then the NPC asks
for more money. Thus can begin a cycle that can be most unpleasant for the players. This could
be a most pleasant chance for the myth maker to craft an entire epic from the players simply
offering some lackey a couple of bucks.
Now it’s time to focus in on a particular type of NPC your players will run into frequently. They
are the most usual antagonist while being the largest boon if used properly. They are the local
authorities, also known as the police. These NPC’s are charged with keeping the peace in their
little jurisdictions. The particular methods they employ are usually tied into their personalities.
You did give them some extra flair, right? Though the individual threshold for crime may vary,
the general reasons for arrest remain the same. The reasons are; to be held for questioning over
suspicious activity, protective custody of the person, commitment for dangerous insanity, and the
final reason being arrests to cover up nefarious acts. Release from imprisionment is typically
tied to the motives of the local authority him/herself.

Mental evolution/devolution
There exists a deficit of trained psychologists and psychotherapists. No steady supply of mood
stablizing drugs, theraputic methods, or even warm and fuzzy things to curl up with. Now is the
point where it should be noted that most everyone is at least a little crazy. The degrees of
madness and symptoms vary from person to person. Most people just have a couple of extra
quarks, such as lucky trinkets or quick rituals they have to do.
Offer players the chance to select their desired quarks when they roll up their characters. It could
give them another layer of depth to their characters. Total madness or an extreme case of
delusion should be persuaded against. Though it would make a very entertaining game, it can
make things tricky indeed. Especially if the characters don’t share in the same delusions.
Examples of madness can be easily found with little research. A couple of common and
interesting psychosis follow.
Multipal personalities are an extremely rare condition, but the effects are quite worth the rarity.
A minimum of two seperate personalities exist in the one body. These personalities are varied
enough to cause significant confusion to anyone who doesn’t know of this condition. A specific
stimuli triggers the switch between the personalities, such as anger, despair, the smell of oranges,
or falling asleep. The trigger can vary between personalities, or be a general stimuli. This
psychosis should be reserved for very rare moments.
Everyone day dreams from time to time. Every once in a while a person will day dream and stay
there. For good. These people usually have a traumatic event happen to them and their brain
seeks to find a world that’s easier to cope with. People afflicted with this will often think
themselves an idealized version of what they actually are. A great and brave hero, georgeous
vixen, or the stealthy thief. Alas the truth tends to be far from. The great hero a cowardly and
incompetitant fool, vixen a lanky and clumsy prude, or the stealthy thief is actually an eight foot
tall giant. Many suffer this delusion, but few remain in this state for extended periods.
Another way to retreat from the dreadful world is to return to a time when things were simpler.
Regressing to your “better times” makes things slightly difficult for your companions.
Especially if the skills you bring to the group you learned after the time you regress to. This
condition is very similar to the previous condition. It occurs frequently, but remaining long term
does not often occur.
When everything in your life starts to go wrong, sometimes you focus on the one thing that’s
going right. Or maybe the first thing that started your downward slope. Could just be a random
incident that happened last week, with that guy how could he do that to you! Reguardless of the
reason sometimes people become obsessed with things. Obsession is different from being
focused on something. Focusing on a task can be desirable and a benificial trait. When you’re
obsessed nothing distracts you. The world fades away until your one desire comes into crystal
clear focus. People are only resources to exploit to get you closer to your one desire.
Considering all the bad things that go around this delusion is one of the more prevaliant
derangements.
There is a natural ebb and flow of a person’s mood. Some days they’re very happy. Other days
they’re angry. Some individuals don’t have an ebb and flow, they have flash floods. These
people suffer from manic depression. Their moods swing from overly joyous to absolutely
depressed in a moments time. Then just to keep things interesting they’ll swing right back in
another instant. Little warning is given to the coming of a flood of emotion. This deviation is
fairly common.
The final psychosis to be discussed is the most tragic. Every once in a while the mind just can’t
take the trauma inflicted upon it. An event so powerful that no other means of protection are
available. The mind will reset to protect itself. In reseting the mind, memories are hidden away
deep down. When that happens the unfourtionate person finds that they have amnesia. Though
these cases are rare, recovery of the lost memories is the most rare of events.
Speaking of recovery, one must discuss the road to recovery from psychological trauma. As
stated earlier most of the standard methods of modern psychology are absent. So recovering
from your psychological troubles is typically a difficult prospect. But given enough support,
assistance, and time in general one can overcome their issues. That being said, you as the myth
maker should do everything in your power to make it a long, painful, next to impossible journey.
Always offer the easy way out to the player, but the cost of the easy way should be dire. The
things players gain are worth the effort they put forth to earn them. The more difficult a reward,
the greater it becomes.
The other side of the coin on that subject is the descent from normal and stable sanity into the
depths of madness. The descent usually begins with an event. A focal point where upon things
go from good to horrid. This point festers, writhes, and lurks in the character’s mind. They
begin to manipulate reality in minor ways to fit their delusions. Those devoloping paranoia
begin to suspect that people are watching them, obsession starts seeing the source of their
obsession more and more, or manic depressives start noticing annoyances right after moments of
great joy. Finally as the psychosis takes deeper and deeper roots, the game will eventually focus
entirely upon the character’s madness. Such an adventure should be cleared by all players before
undertaking though.

Work with players
This is probably going to be redundant if you have any experience dealing on friendly terms with
any human, but the following will be some advice when dealing with players. As it turns out
players are a good source of help with whatever you need. Not sure which direction to take the
plot? Indirectly or even just directly ask the players what they want for their characters. Having
trouble with running too many NPC’s at once? Let those players waste or scare them off.
A good place to begin at with your relationship with those pesky players would be the very
beginning. Don’t just drop the rule book with them and expect a character when you return.
Figure out what kind of player they want to play, the goals they have in the game, and that sort of
thing. It works best if all the players are together with you during this process. That way you
can get a good group dynamic going. Having the group all together will hopefully prevent one
player from rolling a well trained killing machine among a large group of negotiators. That poor
killing machine would sit and rust with all the non combat plot devolopment going on. Another
benefit is to stop the creation of terribly unbalanced characters from popping up.
Next up you can take some of that fantastic insight you have newly gained from the players and
either use it alone, or you can go further and chat with the players some more. Find out what
they would like to do with those shiney new characters. After acting like an information sponge
you can take that lovely knowledge and have it serve as points in your plot for the adventures.
Don’t craft an entire adventure catering to your player’s every whim, but do include them in
points here and there. You wouldn’t want to spoil them, now would you? While writing this
adventure make sure there is plenty of room to let the characters make decisions and solve
problems in their own interesting ways.
Moving forward in time you’ll eventually put this marvelous plot into action. During the events
of the plot you’ll get messed up. The players will do their best to completely derail your
carefully laid plans. You need to decide when you’ll allow it, and when fate needs to drag them
back on track. Either way you, as the myth maker, need to remember to reward their hard work.
If they complete an impossible task give them a due reward. Just pay attention to how much
rewards you pass out. If the characters start appearing more like demi-god kings, you should
probably cut back on the gift giving. On the other side of the rewards you’re dispensing would
be punishment. It may be hard to hear, but if characters insist on doing things that they shouldn’t
then you will have to do unpleasant things to them. The punishment should match the crime, and
typically death is held to the very last. Finding a good balance between punishing and rewarding
your players is something you will have to play by ear.

Misc advice
This is a lot of information to absorb. The following advice is the final wrap up. I promise.
Firstly you should take a little time to get a good handle on the general rules of Ad Emag. A
basic understanding of how the d10 system is used to perform attributes, percentage rolls for
skills, and so on. The best way I’ve found is to play the game, not run it. As a player you can
take the time needed to get an idea of how the pieces of the game fit together in a lower stress
enviromnent. Then when it’s your time to run a game you can use your awesome knowledge to
help the next player who has a shakey foundation. This being said, remember it’s a general
knowledge, not an encyclopediac recollection of the game. Instead of filling your head with that
just have an idea of where to find that information.
This book, nor any within the scope of any book, can cover every single situation. When one
does confront a situation where the rules are unavailable you will have to use some good ol’
creativity. Use your best estimate of what would be appropiate for the solution at hand. There
should be enough rules to form the basis of a good educated guess. On the off chance there is a
situation that i never even came close in guessing, roll some dice mumble, “hmm interesting”
then just make a decision yourself. Just do try to err on the side of the players. They are the
primary persons of interest.
The final advice i have for you is on the subject of crafting and helping run your adventures.
After all your work on the plot, characters, and memorizing the rules you start up the game.
Things go swimmingly. The players act fantastically and then you introduce the main villain of
entire wide sweeping campaign. The players see him, catch whiff of his purpose, then they all
unload all the ammo they can into him. There lies the broken body of your great adventure. To
prevent this mishap you can do a few pretty simple things. The first and most important is your
ability to fudge rolls. This is something you should only reserve for exceptional moments, as
players really don’t like it when you do that. So the next option you have is to take some time to
prepare back-ups. It’s like they say, “an ounce of prepeparation is worth a pound of cure.” Alas
some times those pesky players will do everything in their power to lay waste to your carefully
crafted ideas. The final option i can present to you follows. It’s an array of pre-rolled villains.
Given their roles, they’re called, “Cookie Cutter Villains”. Use them as a basis for your villains,
copy them directly for your use, or just neglect them. It makes no difference to me. But it’s an
option for you to consider.
That’s all the assistance i can offer to you. Remember that you have options, and all the cards.
When in doubt just make it up. NPC’s are your characters, but they’re not the center of the story.
That’s the players. Best of luck to you and i hope you enjoy.

Do-It-Yourself Character Creation
1. Who are you? Fill in your character’s basic information like what’s it’s name, sex, any
tattoos, ect. (See page bla)
2. What kind are you? Select if you would like to be a member of a stable genetic strain, and
which line you would like to be a part of, or if you are a randomly mutated character. Note your
mutations as well as any alterations from your mutations and your genetic line’s inherent bonuses
and penalities. (See page bla)
3. How good are you? Distribute your character’s attribute points to their attributes. (See
page bla)
4. Can you do math? Based on your character’s mutations, stable genetic strain, and
attributes calculate your character’s derived attributes. (See page bla)
5. Where are you from? Roll for your character’s starting location. Then roll to see how
much money your character begins with. Note that, it’ll be important soon enough. (See page
bla)
6. What are you good at? Assign your skills as the chart tells you based on what type of
region you grew up in. (See page bla)
7. What do you have? Now with all your character’s money, buy all the items you need/want.
It is suggested that you have one full set of clothing, a pair of shoes, and a bag of some sort to
hold everything at bare minimum. (See page bla)
8. Can you advance? Seeing how you have experience burning a hole in your character,
spend it as you see fit. Or you could even just save it for a rainy day. (See page bla)
9. Have you checked your work? Double check your character and see if anything is
missing, incorrect, or improperly filled in. (See whole book)
10. Enjoy. Congratulations, you now have a fully created character. If you feel so inspired,
doodle a picture of their mug, jot down a background and history, or just jump straight into a
game. Have fun.

Do-It-Yourself Combat
1. Who got here first? Determine the order of the characters’ and NPCs’ initiative. The
person (or sometimes group) that attacks always gets the first actions. Then go down the line in
order of highest initiative to lowest. Attackers do NOT get a free second action in one turn.
2. Are you just going to stand there? When it is your turn (players’ characters or mythmaker’s
NPCs) you can perform actions that you have enough actions to perform, save your
actions to act later on in the turn, or spend all of your actions to attempt to dodge any incoming
attacks.
3. Does it hurt? After the character/NPC performs their actions any applicable alternative
damage is applied. For example blood loss damage from a gunshot, that burning sensation from
being on fire, or pain and anguish from poisons.
4. Who else wants some? Continue with all characters and NPCs until everyone has used all
their actions or saved them into oblivion. Begin a new turn and everyone loses any saved actions
and any dodging characters keep dodging until it’s the beginning of their turn.
5. Do what? Pete and Repeat are sitting on a fence. Pete falls off. Who’s still on the fence?
Yes you go back to step 1 (yes you adjust the order of who goes first, last, and inbetween at the
beginning of every turn, to account for any adjustments that may befall your initiative) and go
through the whole process again. Keep doing this until those involved in combat resolve their
differences. Be it through hugs, silver tongues, unconscienceness, or death.

Do-It-Yourself Killing
1. Who and what? Determine who your target is and what kind of attack you are going to
use. Such as punching (unarmed), shoot them with a crossbow (archery), or break out the
chainsaw and go crazy on them (exotic melee weapons).
2. How hard can it be? After determining your character’s skill with that attack add and/or
subtract any modifiers for target’s size, speed, is it a Wednesday, your strength with the weapon,
the target’s dodge (if they’re dodging), ect.
3. How hard can it be? Roll a percentile. Above the total determined last step, you miss.
Roll double on that and you critically miss. Roll below the total and you hit. Doubles earn you a
critical hit.
6. Can you feel it? Roll the damage of your weapon.
7. Does it hurt? Distrubute the damage. Damage is taken from armor until it’s depleated,
then from the character’s skin armor value, then from the individual limb’s flesh.
8. Any long term effects? Any hits over 25 damage knock the character over. Every 10
points of flesh damage grants the sufferer 1 blood loss point.

Alternative Damages
Blood Loss-
10 Flesh damage = 1 Blood loss
1 Blood loss = -1 Body flesh per turn
Severed limbs = 10 Blood loss
Blood loss can be stopped with successful Basic Medicine or searingly hot object.
Blood loss heals 1 point per 5 turns
Fire-
75% Chance to catch fire
1d10 Damage every turn, ignoring armor
50% chance to put out fire by yourself, help adds +10% to your chance to put it out
Poison-
Disease Resistance is chance to resist poison also
Success means only one “attack” from poison and/or disease
Failure means one “attack” immediately and another chance to resist after a time specified by
poison
Radiation-
Damage depends on amount of exposure to radiation.
Small Dose- (depleted uranium wound, spending a lot of time with Rotter)
-1 per year from a random physical attribute.
Moderate Dose- (fallout from nuclear weapon, roaming in a uranium mine)
-1 per month from a random physical attribute.
Characters becomes very nauseous.
Large Dose- (playing near nuclear crater, wearing a flawed NBC suit in a radioactive
zone)
-1 per week from a random physical attribute.
Characters have great difficulty keeping any food or drink in them.
Character’s hair also begins to fall out.
Massive Dose- (playing in active nuclear reactor, handling uranium rods)
-1 per day from a random physical attribute.
Characters can do little other than vomit.
Hair falls out in great chunks until characters are bald.
Radiation burn lesions begin to develop.
Knock down-
25 Points of damage (including armor’s absorbation) knocks you down
3 Actions to get up

Cookie Cutter Villains
The following are a slice of the possible people that the characters could run into. They are
made with their major purpose in being cannon fodder for bored characters. But with some
tweaking and a little imagination they could be used to fill in any role that may be required.
Here they are, the cookie cutter villains.

Marauder
There are two types of people in the world, those that work for a living, and those that steal 
from the people that work for a living. Marauder fit into the second category. They tend to 
roam the countryside like a plague of locus. They also usually follow a single powerful leader 
and are broken down into smaller groups that are assigned specific tasks based on the skills of 
the people in the given group.

Title- Marauder 
Strain- Freak
Mental              Physical
Abstract- 1         Bones- 3
Learnable- 2        Metabolism- 3
Senses- 4           Muscles- 4
Stored- 2           Skin- 5
Sub Conscience- 2   Tendons- 5 (with secretions)- 4

Location    Flesh Blunt                 Laceration            Piercing
Head        6     2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Left Arm    15    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Right Arm   15    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Body        60    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Left Leg    30    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Right Leg   30    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)

Combat Training- Military
Initiative- 4 Actions- 5 (4) Melee damage- 2d10
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (6d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Tinted skin, breathe smoke, extra fingers, hardened secretions, hemophiliac.
Skills- Prowl- 40%, Dodge- 35%, Unarmed- 40%, Large Melee Weapons- 40%, Archery- 40%, 
Basic Medicine- 20%
Equipment- Well tattered clothing (all locations), ratty boots, axe (2d10+30), bow, 2d10 arrows
(1d10x2), Bag.
Coin- $ 1d10x10
Notes- May distract opponent in melee combat by breathing smoke in their face, blood does not
cauterize on it’s own.

Marauder Leader
These are marauders that have survived for some time. They pretty well know how to pillage
and raze the country side. Marauder leaders are mostly in charge of groups of marauders that
vary in size, but usually are from 3 to 15 strong.

Title- Marauder Leader 
Strain- Boar
Mental              Physical
Abstract- 4         Bones- 4
Learnable- 3        Metabolism- 5
Senses- 4           Muscles- 4
Stored- 3           Skin- 1
Sub Conscience- 3   Tendons- 4

Location    Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head        8     145   340         125
Left Arm    20    145   340         125
Right Arm   20    145   340         125
Body        80    145   340         125
Left Leg    40    145   340         125
Right Leg   40    145   340         125
Tail        8     145   340         125

Combat Training- Military
Initiative- 4 Actions- 4 Melee damage- 2d10
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (3d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Snout, curly tail, pigskin, dwarfism, gluttonous.
Skills- Prowl- 50%, Dodge- 60%, Small Melee Weapons- 60%, Archery- 60%, 
Basic Medicine- 40%
Equipment- Various car body pieces (all locations), well tattered clothing (all locations), boots,
night stick (2d10+5), crossbow, 4d10 quarrels (1d10x2), bag.
Coin- $ 1d10x50
Notes- Must eat constantly.

Marauder Commander
When you combine charisma, years of conflict, a great lust for conquest, and a group of minions
willing to die for you, you get a marauder commander. These are the people that manage to live
through enough of the horrors of the world to inflict some horrors of their own. Armed with
only the best spoils of their campaigns and harden by years upon years of fighting they make for
very fearsome foes in combat.

Title- Marauder Commander 
Strain- Bot
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 4       Bones- 8
Learnable- 3      Metabolism- 3
Senses- 3         Muscles- 6
Stored- 3         Skin- 2
Sub Conscience- 1 Tendons- 5

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      16    52    258         172
Left Arm  40    100   300         770
Right Arm 40    100   300         770
Body      160   100   300         770
Left Leg  80    52    258         172
Right Leg 80    52    258         172

Combat Training- Military
Initiative- 3 Actions- 5 Melee damage- 2d10 (3d10 with metal)
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (3d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Metallic bones, leaden skin, natural battery, mechanical limb (left arm), receives
radio waves.
Skills- Prowl- 40%, Dodge- 60%, Unarmed- 60%, Large Melee Weapons- 60%, Archery-60%, 
Basic Medicine- 30%
Equipment- Flack jacket (left arm, right arm, body), well tattered clothing (all locations),
combat boots, spear (2d10 +25), spear cannon, 1d10 spears (3d10x2), brief case, bag.
Coin- $ 2d10x100
Notes- Can not feel anything in left arm, receives random radio waves in area, deals 1d10
damage to others in water, sinks in water.

Scavenger
With all of the death and destruction that has befallen the world, there lies a great and many
technological goodies lying around to be discovered by anyone who is industrious enough to
search for it. Those that search the ruins of the world for odds and ends to sell off are called
scavengers. Scavengers usually only attack when they are either cornered, or they think that they
can easily defeat whomever they encounter. On average they are dirty, mismatched, and
equipped with salvaged equipment.

Title- Scavenger 
Strain- Rotter
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 4       Bones- 2
Learnable- 3      Metabolism- 1
Senses- 4         Muscles- 3
Stored- 5         Skin- 1
Sub Conscience- 4 Tendons- 3

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      4     100   60          40
Left Arm  10    100   60          40
Right Arm 10    100   60          40
Body      40    100   60          40
Left Leg  20    100   60          40
Right Leg 20    100   60          40

Combat Training- Knife Fighting
Initiative- 4 Actions- 2 Melee damage- 1d10
Moves- Punch (1d10), kick (2d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Cancerous, preserved, rotted flesh, passage of death, glows.
Skills- Prowl- 50%, Dodge- 55%, Unarmed- 55%, Small Melee Weapons- 55%, 
Support Firearms- 35%, Basic Medicine- 20%
Equipment- Wooden body suit (all locations), switch blade (1d10+3), flame thrower,3 bottles of
very strong spirits (1d10x1d10), duffel bag, first aid kit, shovel, map (50% chance of it being of
the current area), binoculars.
Coin- $ 3d10
Notes- Immune to radiation, spreads diseases, no penalties to melee combat in the dark, kills
nearby plants, can’t prowl at night.

Wanderer
Civilization isn’t always for everybody. With the great expanses between cities, it is very possible
to wander about for months without any contact with a single person. This life style is very
attractive to quite a few people. Those that roam the countryside traveling from town to town
would fit into this category. What few items that they possess are usually very sentimentally
valuable to them, and very well worn.

Title- Wanderer 
Strain- None
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 2       Bones- 4
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 4
Senses- 4         Muscles- 4
Stored- 2         Skin- 4
Sub Conscience- 8 Tendons- 4

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      8     125   300         125
Left Arm  20    125   300         125
Right Arm 20    125   300         125
Body      80    125   300         125
Left Leg  40    125   300         125
Right Leg 40    125   300         125

Combat Training- Town Guard
Initiative- 4 Actions- 3 Melee damage- 2d10
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (3d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Gills, web spinner, gigantic, inherited memories, extra stomachs, passage of death,
glows, double jointed.
Skills- Prowl- 20%, Dodge- 25%, Unarmed- 30%, Rifles- 40%, Basic Medicine- 40%
Equipment- Animal hides (all locations), corrugated iron (all locations), .223 rifle with scope,
1d10 .223 jacketed bullets (1d10x10), backpack, pack of cigarettes, binoculars, sun glasses, razor.
Coin- $ 2d10x10
Notes- Is very flexible, can create a very sticky and strong web, doesn’t suffer darkness penalties
for melee combat, can not prowl at night, can breath both air and water, must eat twice as much
as a normal person, plants wither and die nearby, is confused about who they really are.

Primate
This is actually a derogatory term for the people who live in communities that have exceptionally
low levels of technology. They tend to be superstitious, easily confused, and quick to anger.
What they lack in technology they more than make up for with their proficiently with the more
basic items and weapons of the world.

Title- Primate 
Strain- Wretched
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 3       Bones- 3
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 3
Senses- 4         Muscles- 4
Stored- 2         Skin- 1
Sub Conscience- 4 Tendons- 5

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      6     16    40          24
Left Arm  15    16    40          24
Right Arm 15    16    40          24
Body      135   46    60          24
Left Leg  30    16    40          24
Right Leg 30    16    40          24

Combat Training- Primitive
Initiative- 79% Actions- 4 Melee damage- 2d10
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (3d10), grapple (2d10), KO (1d10).
Mutations- Cancerous, elongated limbs, solid ribcage, abnormally shaped bones, double
jointed.
Skills- Prowl- 35%, Dodge- 25%, Unarmed- 30%, Large Melee Weapons- 25%, Throw- 35%, 
Basic Medicine- 40%
Equipment- Tanned leather (All locations), Studded leather (Body), Spear (2d10+25), Rock
knife (2d10+3), Flint
Coin- None
Notes- Healing time is every 5 minutes, double normal reach, very flexible, is in constant pain.

Towns person
If two people run into each other while walking through the hazardous world, chances are that
they will walk together for protection. If two groups of people run into each other, then chances
are that they will start a town. Towns typically have some form of protection, such as animals,
trained and armed guards, and/or walls. These are the standard people that go on about their
day to day activities not particularly caring to go out and adventure, quest, or even leave the
safety of their towns.

Title- Towns Person 
Strain- None
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 2       Bones- 3
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 2
Senses- 2         Muscles- 4
Stored- 2         Skin- 2
Sub Conscience- 5 Tendons- 2 (with secretions)- 1

Location Flesh  Blunt                 Laceration            Piercing
Head      6     2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Left Arm  15    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Right Arm 15    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Body      60    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Left Leg  30    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)
Right Leg 30    2 (32 w/ secretions)  8 (28 w/ secretions)  2 (22 w/ secretions)

Combat Training- Untrained
Initiative- 2 Actions- 2 (1) Melee damage- 2d10
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (3d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Hardened secretions.
Skills- Prowl- 20%, Dodge- 25%, Unarmed- 20%, Small Melee Weapons- 13%, Basic Medicine- 35%
Equipment- Dark blue jump suit (all locations), boot knife (2d10+8), razor, bottle of gin,
wallet.
Coin- $ 1d10
Notes- None.

Town Guard
Towns are very tempting targets for raiders, marauders, and any other unsavory type of person
that wishes to make a quick and easy profit. To keep towns from being scrubbed off the face of
the earth, towns either train or hire people to guard their towns. These guards are usually young
people from the town that are hastily trained and equipped, or they are old and worn out
adventurers that want to settle down. Whichever they are, they aren’t very intimidating alone.
It’s their numbers and the defenses that they fight from that make people think twice about
razing the town to the ground.

Title- Town Guard 
Strain- Sinect
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 2       Bones- 6
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 2
Senses- 3         Muscles- 3
Stored- 4         Skin- 2
Sub Conscience- 2 Tendons- 3

Location      Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head          12    90    106         54
Left Arm      30    90    106         54
Right Arm     30    90    106         54
Body          120   90    106         54
Left Leg      60    90    106         54
Right Leg     60    90    106         54
Extra Limb 1  30    0     0           0
Extra Limb 2  30    0     0           0

Combat Training- Town Guard
Initiative- 3 Actions- 4 Melee damage- 1d10
Moves- Punch (1d10), kick (2d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Extra limb, exoskeleton, adhesion, extra eyes, wiry.
Skills- Prowl- 20%, Dodge- 25%, Unarmed- 20%, Small Melee Weapons- 10%, Archery-49%, 
Basic Medicine- 35%
Equipment- Padded sports safety armor (all locations, except extra limbs), bow, 3d10 arrows
(1d10x2), night stick (1d10+5), purse, cheesy romance novel, playing cards, sun glasses, zippo
lighter.
Coin- $ 3d10
Notes- Sticks to most surfaces, has 9 extra eyes, has 2 extra limbs.

Town Leader
As opposed to the brutal and blood thirsty leaders of marauder groups, leaders of towns tend to
be more on the passive and charismatic side of the spectrum. Their position is gained with the
consent of the townspeople. Though they are peaceful, they still know a thing or two about
defending themselves. Being able to and willing to are two very different things though.

Title- Town Leader 
Strain- Brain
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 6       Bones- 1
Learnable- 6      Metabolism- 2
Senses- 3         Muscles- 2
Stored- 6         Skin- 5
Sub Conscience- 2 Tendons- 1

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      2     2     8           2
Left Arm  5     2     8           2
Right Arm 5     2     8           2
Body      20    2     8           2
Left Leg  10    2     8           2
Right Leg 10    2     8           2

Combat Training- Untrained
Initiative- 3 Actions- 1 Melee damage- 1d10
Moves- Punch (1d10), kick (2d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Uncovered brain, abnormally large head, inherited memories, Nearsighted,
lethargic.
Skills- Prowl- 20%, Dodge- 100%, Unarmed- 35%, Pistols- 100%, Basic Medicine- 120%
Equipment- Old suit (All locations), 9 mm semiautomatic pistol, 2d10 9 mm hollow head
bullets (4d10x5), suit case, pistol holster, various papers on the town, glasses to correct
nearsighted.
Coin- $ 2d10x100
Notes- Confused as to who they are exactly, not so great at seeing things in the distance.

Combat Tech
This is a generic term for any person, or group of people who were lucky enough to discover a
substantial amount of technological goodies. Given the difficulty in finding what they possess,
getting it, and holding on to it, it isn’t a big surprise that they are always quite dangerous. The
good news about them is that they do not exist in substantial numbers.

Title- Combat Tech 
Strain- Rotter
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 4       Bones- 4
Learnable- 7      Metabolism- 5
Senses- 5         Muscles- 5
Stored- 6         Skin- 1
Sub Conscience- 2 Tendons- 5

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      8     60    60          600
Left Arm  20    60    60          600
Right Arm 20    60    60          600
Body      80    60    60          600
Left Leg  40    60    60          600
Right Leg 40    60    60          600

Combat Training- Action Movies
Initiative- 5 Actions- 4 Melee damage- 2d10
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (3d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Cancerous, preserved, rotted flesh, passage of death, glows.
Skills- Prowl- 20%, Dodge- 70%, Unarmed- 70%, Pistols- 120%, Rifles- 120%, Basic Medicine- 55%
Equipment- Riot armor (All locations), M16 assault rifle, 1d10x10 5.56 AP bullets (1d10x10), 
.44 magnum revolver, 1d10 .44 magnum hollow head bullets (5d10x5), pistol holster, first aid kit,
hypodermic needle containing The Syrum, 1d10 water purification pills, lighter.
Coin- $ 2d10x100
Notes- Immune to radiation, spreads diseases, suffers no penalties for melee fighting in the dark,
kills nearby plants, can not prowl at night.

Piloting Tech
People don’t always want to walk from town to town when they need to travel. Given the
dangerous nature of travel between towns, people lucky enough to have vehicles would rather put
weapons on them to protect their expensive investments. So this is where piloting techs come
into play. They take the the time and effort to soup up their vehicles with extra modifications,
weapons, and booby traps. Outside of their given transport, they are only marginally
intimidating. Inside their vehicles they are terrifying.

Title- Piloting Tech 
Strain- Amoeba
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 4       Bones- 5
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 2
Senses- 6         Muscles- 2
Stored- 2         Skin- 7
Sub Conscience- 4 Tendons- 2

Location Flesh  Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      10    2     8           2
Left Arm  25    16    40          24
Right Arm 25    16    40          24
Body      100   16    40          24
Left Leg  50    2     8           2
Right Leg 50    2     8           2

Combat Training- Football
Initiative- 4 Actions- 2 Melee damage- 1d10
Moves- Punch (1d10), kick (2d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Allergies, plastic skin, silicone flesh, overactive stomach acid production, lethargic.
Skills- Drive- 40%, Prowl- 20%, Dodge- 25%, Unarmed- 35%, Rifles- 25%, Basic Medicine- 35%
Equipment- Smelly old clothes (all locations), leather jacket (left arm, right arm, body), cards,
compass, various maps, sun glasses, mini van with; Extra fuel tanks, 2 mounted AK-47’s,
3d10x10 7.62 tracer bullets (2d10x10), 3d10 gallons of gasoline in the tank.
Coin- $ 1d10x100
Notes- May vomit stomach acid on target that does 2d10 damage each turn it remains on it’s
target, allergens incapacitates, has constant heartburn.

Psychopath
Sanity just isn’t for everybody. When a person decides that their own form of reality is a better
place to stay at then the currently accepted one, they become a psychopath. They could be
anything from comatose to raving madmen who crave nothing more than to kill without any
remorse. A comatose person isn’t really worth making up stats for, so it would logically follow
that the people represented here are the diabolical “Let’s kill everyone that we can see” type of
person. They are very unstable and it would be futile to even begin to attempt to predict what
they would do in a given situation.

Title- Psychopath 
Strain- Immune
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 3       Bones- 3
Learnable- 3      Metabolism- 3
Senses- 3         Muscles- 3
Stored- 3         Skin- 3
Sub Conscience- 3 Tendons- 3

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      6     2     8           2
Left Arm  15    2     8           2
Right Arm 15    2     8           2
Body      60    2     8           2
Left Leg  30    2     8           2
Right Leg 30    2     8           2

Combat Training- Untrained
Initiative- 3 Actions- 3 Melee damage- 1d10
Moves- Punch (1d10), kick (2d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- None
Skills- Prowl- 30%, Dodge- 30%, Unarmed- 45%, Throw- 38%, Basic Medicine- 15%
Equipment- Torn tatters of clothing (All locations), Stuffed animal, Red rubber bouncy ball
(1d10)
Coin- None
Notes- None

Naturalist
With the great bounty of genetically diverse florin and fauna throughout out the world, one
doesn’t need to look far for various drugs that may be required. The difficult part comes in when
one wants to distinguish the effects of the plants and animals. This is a very desirable trade for
people that wish to live off of the land. These people aren’t very aggressive, but they will defend
themselves when the are required to. They are mostly known for what poisonous potions and
helpful brews they can make for those that find them and meet their prices.

Title- Naturalist 
Strain- Dryad
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 5       Bones- 2
Learnable- 2      Metabolism- 1
Senses- 2         Muscles- 3
Stored- 5         Skin- 4
Sub Conscience- 4 Tendons- 3

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      4     50    135         20
Left Arm  10    50    135         20
Right Arm 10    50    135         20
Body      40    50    135         20
Left Leg  20    50    135         20
Right Leg 20    50    135         20

Combat Training- Boxing
Initiative- 1 Actions- 3 Melee damage- 1d10
Moves- Punch (1d10), kick (2d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Elongated limbs, leaves and bark, poisonous blood, altered perception,
photosynthesis.
Skills- Prowl- 50%, Dodge- 55%, Unarmed- 65%, Small Melee Weapons- 45%, Basic Medicine- 35%
Equipment- Hollow dagger with strong poison inside (1d10+8 and strong poison damage),
various herbs and animal parts, herbal healing aid.
Coin- $ 2d10x50
Notes- Doesn’t need food, can survive off of sunlight and dirt, arms and legs are extremely
long, blood counts as a strong poison when consumed or introduced into others, perceives
pheromones.

Unorthodox Born Again Satanist
Religion is a funny thing. What was once considered to be good could quickly be considered evil.
And what was once considered evil could be considered to be good. That is what happened with
Christianity. As the world fell to it’s knees, a lot of people began to question their religious views.
Christianity was the most popular religion at the time, so it was questioned the most harshly. A
large group of people began to think that they were worshiping the wrong side of Christianity.
These people became the first ever Church of the Born Again Satanist. The worse the world
became, the stronger the following became. The followers live life to it’s excess doing what ever
they want to. When alone they are a lot like a rabid animal, wandering around in a stupor until
something provokes them or catches their attention. When this happens, they become
overwhelmed with an unquenchable thirst for spilled blood. If they group together, it is a
fearsome thing. They roam the streets leaving nothing unspoiled or living.

Title- Born Again Satanist 
Strain- Leather Neck
Mental            Physical
Abstract- 3       Bones- 7
Learnable- 1      Metabolism- 5
Senses- 3         Muscles- 5
Stored- 2         Skin- 4
Sub Conscience- 2 Tendons- 2

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      14    2     8           2
Left Arm  35    2     8           2
Right Arm 35    2     8           2
Body      140   2     8           2
Left Leg  70    2     8           2
Right Leg 70    2     8           2

Combat Training- Knife Fighting
Initiative- 3 Actions- 2 Melee damage- 2d10
Moves- Punch (2d10), kick (3d10), grapple, KO (1d10).
Mutations- Hoofed feet, horns, leathery hide, gigantic, extra stomachs.
Skills- Prowl- 40%, Dodge- 35%, Unarmed- 40%, Small Melee Weapons- 40%, Support Firearms- 38%,
Basic Medicine- 20%
Equipment- Red priest’s robes (all locations), flame-thrower, 3 gallon canister of napalm
(3d10x1d10), machete (2d10+13), satanic bible, empty hypodermic needle, small bag of heroine,
silver spoon, zippo, boots.
Coin- $ 1d10x10
Notes- Must eat twice as much as a normal person, head butt does double piercing damage.

Bestiary
This section is dedicated to the animals that roam the world. The following animals are hardier
than what had existed before the plague. As Darwin said, “Only the strong survive,” and animals
are the embodiment of that philosophy.

Bears
Bears are large and furry animals that are much larger than people. They don’t tend to be overly
aggressive except when they are protecting their young or when they are desperately hungary.
They live in caves near or in forests or basements and cellars of abandoned buildings.

Species- Bear
Mental      Physical
Abstract- 3 Muscles- 8
Senses- 4   Tendons- 4

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      30    0     0           0
Left Arm  75    0     0           0
Right Arm 75    0     0           0
Body      300   0     0           0
Left Leg  150   0     0           0
Right Leg 150   0     0           0

Initiative- 4
Actions- 4
Moves- Bite- (4d10x10), swipe- (3d10x5)
Skills- Swimming- 80%, prowl- 50%, unarmed- 100%, dodge- 30%.
Notes- None.

Birds
Birds are the species that have control of the air. As a group they all have beaks, feathers, and
wings. Birds are either carnivores or vegetarians, with vegetarians being non-aggressive and
carnivores being the aggressive side. They tend to nest up high off the ground in trees, attics, or
skyscrapers.

Species- Bird
Mental      Physical
Abstract- 1 Muscles- 1
Senses- 5   Tendons- 5

Location    Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head        4     0     0           0
Left Wing   10    0     0           0
Right Wing  10    0     0           0
Body        40    0     0           0
Left Leg    20    0     0           0
Right Leg   20    0     0           0

Initiative- 5
Actions- 5
Moves- Peck- (1d10x2), Claw- (1d10).
Skills- Flight- 95%, unarmed- 35%, dodge- 45%.
Notes- None.

Snakes
Most of the snakes that have survived all that has happened to the world have done so for two
reasons. Firstly they are all exceptionally poisonous. Secondly they are overly aggressive. They
are long, thin, and without limbs. They live anywhere that is cool, dark, and secluded.

Species- Snake
Mental      Physical
Abstract- 3 Muscles- 1
Senses- 5   Tendons- 7

Location  Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head      6     50    30          20
Body      60    50    30          20

Initiative- 5
Actions- 7
Moves- Bite- (1d10)
Skills- Prowl- 105%, unarmed- 65%.
Notes- If bitten by snake, a dose of death poison is received.

Wild Dogs
In the days before the plague a lot of people kept dogs for pets. When nearly all of the animal’s
masters died off, the dogs escaped and began to roam through the countryside. Dogs will live
where ever they can, and tend to run in large packs.

Species- Dogs
Mental      Physical
Abstract- 4 Muscles- 3
Senses- 4   Tendons- 3

Location        Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head            8     0     0           0
Left Front Leg  20    0     0           0
Right Front Leg 20    0     0           0
Body            80    0     0           0
Left Rear Leg   40    0     0           0
Right Rear Leg  40    0     0           0
Tail            8     0     0           0

Initiative- 4
Actions- 3
Moves- Bite- (2d10x2)
Skills- Prowl- 75%, unarmed- 80%, dodge- 50%.
Notes- None.

Large Cats
Of all the cats that survived the events that nearly ended the world, the larger more feral cats are
what most people worry about. They are half as tall as an average person and they are as long as
a person is tall. Large cats make their dens in spaces that are hidden from people, such as
abandoned buildings, caves, or in forest clearings.

Species- Cat
Mental    Physical
Abstract- 5 Muscles- 3
Senses- 4   Tendons- 5

Location        Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head            16    0     0           0
Left Front Leg  40    0     0           0
Right Front Leg 40    0     0           0
Body            160   0     0           0
Left Rear Leg   80    0     0           0
Right Rear Leg  80    0     0           0
Tail            16    0     0           0

Initiative- 4 Actions- 5
Moves- Bite- (1d10x10), Swipe- (1d10x2).
Skills- Prowl- 100%, unarmed- 85%, dodge- 60%.
Notes- None.

Deer
Before the plague deer were passive and hunted for food. Unknown events made them into
overly aggressive animals. They have been known to attack humans on sight. Otherwise they
have changed little physically.

Species- Deer
Mental      Physical
Abstract- 3 Muscles- 4
Senses- 4   Tendons- 5

Location        Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head            20    0     0           0
Left Front Leg  50    0     0           0
Right Front Leg 50    0     0           0
Body            200   0     0           0
Left Rear Leg   100   0     0           0
Right Rear Leg  100   0     0           0
Tail            20    0     0           0

Initiative- 4
Actions- 5
Moves- Head butt- (2d10x5), trample- (3d10x10).
Skills- Prowl- 125%, unarmed- 100%, dodge- 100%.
Notes- None.

Rat
Rats not only survived the plague, but prospered. Being scavengers they have plenty to eat. Rats
alone aren’t that intimidating, but if encountered in a pack, they tend to swarm and overwhelm
their young, sick, wounded, or sleeping victims. They live anywhere they can.

Species- Rats
Mental      Physical
Abstract- 6 Muscles- 1
Senses- 1   Tendons- 2

Location        Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing 
Head            1     0     0           0
Left Front Leg  3     0     0           0
Right Front Leg 3     0     0           0
Body            10    0     0           0
Left Rear Leg   5     0     0           0
Right Rear Leg  5     0     0           0
Tail            1     0     0           0

Initiative- 1
Actions- 2
Moves- Bite- (1d10), claw- (1d10).
Skills- Prowl- 100%, unarmed- 50%, dodge- 40%
Notes- None.

Frog
Frogs were the only species as a whole that were radically mutated. The frogs were experimented
on when the syrum was being researched, and a family of gigantic frogs escaped. The giant frogs
reproduced and overwhelmed the normally sized frog population. The larger frogs will eat
anything. They will eat people, pets, or anything else that they can fit into their mouths. They
live in swamps, bogs, or near rivers or lakes.

Species- Frog
Mental      Physical
Abstract- 3 Muscles- 5
Senses- 3   Tendons- 5

Location        Flesh Blunt Laceration  Piercing
Head            18    0     0           0
Left Front Leg  45    0     0           0
Right Front Leg 45    0     0           0
Body            180   0     0           0
Left Rear Leg   90    0     0           0
Right Rear Leg  90    0     0           0

Initiative- 4
Actions- 5
Moves- Bite- (3d10x2), Tongue shot- (1d10).
Skills- Prowl- 50%, unarmed- 100%, throw (tongue)- 150%, dodge- 45%.
Notes- None.
