Gear
Weapons
Melee Weapons
These are the weapons that you use in melee combat. That means using swords, chains, fists,
feet, chairs, 2 x 4’s and any other implement that you might use to injure a person that is
propelled by your own muscles.
Here’s some melee weapons...

Name- Shiv
Skill- Melee
Damage- Melee Damage +10
Description- A fall back for anyone who can't afford any better.  Consists of something with a
pointy bit and a not pointy bit to hold onto.  The pointy bit might also have a sharp edge to it,
if you have the delux shiv.
Notes- It's better than creative insults as well as your bare hands.
Value- 36-2,116

Name- Claw hammer
Skill- Melee
Damage- Melee Damage +15
Description- A hammer.  Used on nails.  In a pinch can be used on heads.  People's heads, not nail
heads.
Notes- It has a flat part as well as a claw part.  Two sides for the price of one tool.
Value- 64-2,601

Name- Spear
Skill- Melee
Damage- Melee Damage +65
Description- A popular weapon with primates, it's also one of the simpler ones available.  Typically
consists of something sharp tied, taped, jammed, or stuffed onto the end of a long pole.  Hit the 
target with the pointy end if you don't like them, or with the not pointy end if you do like them.
Nothing could be simpler.
Notes- Customizable with your choice of pointy bit to poke people with.
Value- 536-10,201

Name- Replica saber
Skill- Melee
Damage- Melee Damage +70
Description- A saber from a bygone era.  It looks mean and intimidating, but thanks to it being
a replica, it's not as tough as it should be.
Notes- Higher chance to break with every attack.
Value- 598-11,236

Name- Fire axe
Skill- Melee
Damage- Melee Damage +75
Description- An axe used by the preplague fire departments to kill fire.  Often met with mixed 
results, the secretes of killing fire have been lost.  Still works pretty well on people, animals,
and inanimate objects.
Notes- Painted bright red.
Value- 663-12,321

Ranged Weapons
Ranged weapons are weapons that are used from a distance. They send various projectiles outward 
faster than you can throw them. If you don’t wish to see the look of pain and fear on your 
enemies face, then ranged weapons are for you.

Name- Bow
Skill- Range
Ammo- Arrow
Description- A simple bow and arrow that uses the elastic principals it’s materials to send an arrow to
the targets much faster than throwing it at people. It also happens to be a very cheap and
effective means of arming one’s self.
Notes- Makes a satisifying "twang" when you shoot it.
Value- 32-10,000

Name- .38 special
Skill- Range
Ammo- Pistol
Description- This pistol is a good all purpose pistol. Enough stopping power to take most people and
creatures down, but not too difficult to wield.
Notes- Most special weapon you'll ever find.  You better treat it right.
Value- 89-40,000

Name- 30.06 rifle
Skill- Range
Ammo- Rifle
Description- A nice and simple long rifle.  Bolt action is very durable and reliable.
Notes- Preferred weapon of sharp shooters.
Value- 164-90,000

Name- Pipe Rifle
Skill- Range
Ammo- Shotgun
Description- A pipe wide enough to hold a shotgun shell and a sping loaded nail to fire the rifle when 
the "trigger" is pulled.
Notes- A simple lead pipe with a jury rigged trigger. Hand made post apocalyptic craftsmanship.
Value- 354-250,000

Name- Spear cannon
Skill- Range
Ammo- Spears
Description-Think of bow.  Now instead of shooting small arrows, imagine it shoots spears.  That's 
a spear cannon.
Notes- Easiest to make heavy weapon around.
Value- 1,000-1,000,000

Less Than Lethal Weapons
Sometimes you don't want to kill a person.  Well actually hopefully you never want to kill, just are
forced to by events outside your control.  Anyway the following weapons are designed to do as 
little damage to the target as possible, but render them unable to fight.

Name- Boxing gloves
Skill- Melee
Damage- 1 damage every blow.
Description- Padded gloves worn to fight for sport instead of killing.  
Notes- You can still type on a keyboard while wearing them.
Value- 45-70

Name- Practice sword
Skill- Melee
Damage- 1 damage every blow.
Description- Sword made of wood to teach the user how to use a real metal sword.  Makes learning
much less terrifying.
Notes- Makes a satisfying "thwack" noise when you hit someone.
Value- 25-50

Name- Cattle prod
Skill- Melee
Ammo- Batteries
Damage- 1d10 damage
Description- A long metal rod connected to a switch and some batteries.  Hit someone with it and let
them have a jolt from the batteries.  Usually persuades them to leave you alone.  All without killing 
them.
Notes- Every blow causes the target to lose 1 action on their next turn.  Also makes them rethink
attacking the person with the cattle prod.
Value- 435-635

Name- Peper spray
Skill- Range
Ammo- Hot sauce
Damage- Just feels like it damages you.
Description- A small water gun filled with whatever spicy liquid can be found.  When applied to eyes or
open wounds it makes the target rethink their life choices.  It also makes them cry.  A lot.
Notes- Whenever a person is sprayed they lose 4 actions every turn for 3d10 turns.
Value- 250-300

Name- Taser
Skill- Range
Ammo- Batteries
Damage- None
Description- This is the cattle prod version 2.  Instead of a rod attached to batteries, now it's thin 
wires.  That are spring loaded to be shot out at the target.  Once they strike the target they stick 
until they are removed and the electricity can be applied from a distance.
Notes- After hitting the target, user can apply electricity to make the target dance.  Will also make
the target lose 4 actions while the electricity is being applied.
Value- 500-750

Ammunition
Ammunition is the stuff that you can use to hurt people, but most require another item to make
them work, like a gun.

Name- Arrow
Damage- 1d10x10
Description-  A straight piece of wood with a sharp part at one end and feathers at the other end.
Simplestest of the ammunition.
Notes- DIY ranged weapon ammo.  
Value- 32-10,000

Name- .38 lead
Damage- 2d10x10
Description-  A small bullet for the .38 special.  Not much special about the bullet though.
Notes- Nothing too interesting.
Value- 89-40,000

Name- Buckshot
Damage- 1d10x20
Description-  A popular type of ammo for the shotgun.  Makes it harder to miss what you're shooting
at.
Notes- Helps you hit those pesky targets.  +1 to range skill when used.  
Value- 89-40,000

Name- Slug
Damage- 1d10x50
Description-  Shotgun ammo used to kill large and angry things.
Notes- Quite effective at making things less than alive.
Value- 354-250,000

Name- 30.06 jacketed
Damage- 3d10x10
Description-  Standard rifle bullet.  Shoots good and straight.
Notes- Average as a rifle bullet can be.
Value- 164-90,000

Name- Spear
Damage- 2d10x50
Description-  A long straight hunk of metal or tough wood.  When shot from the spear cannon it has 
a nasty habbit of impailing it's target.
Notes- DIY heavy weapon ammo.  
Value- 1,000-10,000

Armor
Any person who is worth their salt realizes that you can not survive a battle for very long without
some form of protection. Protection that you wear is called armor, and it may be anything from
a bullet proof vest, the clothes you wear, to a suit made from animal bones. Whatever it may be,
you are probably wearing it to protect you, even if you are trying to make a fashion statement at
the same time.
Since every material is different in how it absorbs damage, here is the chart on what the material
may be, and how much damage it absorbs before your character has to deal with it. 

Light armor
This is the cheapest armor that also provides the least amount of protection for you.  

Name- Plain clothing
Armor- 5
Description- Normal clothes.  The kind you wear day to day.  Provides most bare of minimums in protection.
Still better than nothing.
Notes- Looks stylish at least.
Value- 11-25

Name- Hides
Armor- 10
Description- Thick furs and skin of large animals.  Prepared to prevent decay.  It gives a bit of protection
from attacks, but is best against the cold in general.
Notes- Keeps you warm when it's cold out.
Value- 32-100

Name- Reptile skins
Armor- 13
Description- The skins taken from snakes, aligators, and other reptiles.  Provides a little protection, also
looks pretty sweet.
Notes- Potentially the most awesome boots available.
Value- 47-169

Name- Padded clothing
Armor- 15
Description- Lots of layers of regular clothing or especially well padded clothing.  Great at softening blows
and keeping you warm.
Notes- Another armor that helps keep you toasty warm.
Value- 58-225

Name- Patches
Armor- +3
Description- Small squares of fabric to cover holes in light armor.  May or may not match the base material. 
Could also be either scrap fabric or actual patches proclaiming various interests in music.
Notes- Can not be used without armor.  Adds it's armor value to the armor's armor value.
Value- 5-9

Medium Armor
This armor starts providing some kind of respectable defence against various attacks.  

Name- Leather
Armor- 25
Description- The prepaired skins of Leathernecks.  Leather is good at repelling water, keeping you warm, and
even protecting you a little bit.
Notes- Standard armor most work with.
Value- 125-625

Name- Bone
Armor- 40
Description- The bones taken from animals, people, and fossils.  Not only protects, but also makes you look 
much more intimidating than other armors.
Notes- It takes quite a few bones to make a full suit of armor.  They have to come from someplace unpleasant.
Value- 253-1,600

Name- Plastic
Armor- 50
Description- Hard plastic can come in a variety of bright colors and shapes.  Some of them may even protect 
you from harm.
Notes- Can customize colors and shapes to suit your particular whims.
Value- 354-2,500

Name- Rubber
Armor- 65
Description- A springy substance most often taken from car tires.  
Notes- Quite often pieced together from many smaller scraps.
Value- 524-4,225

Name- Wood
Armor- 70
Description- Large slabs of wood hung on your body to protect vital parts.  Can be carved and painted 
decoratively.
Notes- Much thicker and stiffer than a Dryad's skin.
Value- 586-4,900

Heavy Armor
The best armor available.  Most consists of materials that were created in the pre-plague days with
advanced manufacturing methods.  Would be great canidates for heirloom items.

Name- Scrap metal
Armor- 175
Description- Armor created from available hunks of metal.  Usually provides a pretty solid protection
from most sources of damage.
Notes- Comes with tetanus free of charge.
Value- 2,315-30,625

Name- Kevlar armor
Armor- 225
Description- High tech fibers from the days before the plauge.  These fibers combine to make clothing that
can stop bullets.  Highly prized for it's toughness.
Notes- The fabric is almost comfortable.
Value- 3,375-50,625

Name- Flack armor
Armor- 250
Description- A brilliant person took the Kevlar clothing and put heavy metal plates in strategic locations
to protect organs even better.  What a great person.
Notes- Quite a bit heavier, but sturdier than Kevlar armor.
Value- 3,953-62,500

Name- Plate mail
Armor- 300
Description- A refined version of the scrap metal armor.  The metal is shaped and reinforced in key spots 
to provide a great amount of protection.
Notes- Unluckily it weighs heavily on the user and slows them down quite a bit.
Value- 5,196-90,000

Name- Demolition suit
Armor- 400
Description- The apex of all armors.  Combining the heavy solid nature of plate mail and the light defensive
properties of Kevlar.  All in a big fuzzy suit.
Notes- Extreme in it's protection, weight, and stuffyness.
Value- 8,000-160,000

Items
The rest of the following bits of gear are the various items that a character may pickup, use, 
hold onto, sell, or horde.

Medical items
These are items commonly used to keep a person alive.  They range from supplies used in desperation to the nearly 
magical Syrum.

Name- Syrum
Description- The source of everyone survival, as well as their problems.  Grants the ability to live another day,
save yourself now, or even grant temporary improvements.  The price is withdrawn as they rest after the great trials and
tribulations.  The syrum sets out to warp the user and mutate their very bodies.
Use- [i don't know yet!]
Value- 1,000-10,000

Name- Antibiotics
Description- Drugs once revered for their ability to kill off germs.  It's value has gone down considerably with the 
widespread availability of the Syrum.  Antibiotics are usually reserved for extreme poverty, isolated, or misguided 
regions, otherwise known as Immune towns.
Use- Each use of antibiotics will cure a single disease that a character has after they take the antibiotic and rest 
for a day.
Value- 50-300

Name- Pain killers
Description- Universally useful, pain killers are used to dull any pain that a person is experiencing.  
Use- Makes the user comfortably numb.
Value- 5-100

Name- Splint
Description- A piece of wood and some rope used to imobilize a broken or severely injured limb.
Use- Keeps a particular limb very still.
Value- 1-25

Name- Gause
Description- Clean and dry cloth used to stop bleeding.
Use- Stops any blood loss.  Also helps with keeping you alive when you're wounded.
Value- 1-15

Drugs
These are the drugs. Not just the kind that you get addicted to, but the ones that help you heal
wounds, and the ones that can kill you.

Name- Surge
Description- A drug that makes you move with startling speed.  
Use- Gives the user 2 extra action points per round for 10 minutes.
Value- 75-125

Name- Rage
Description- This drug fills you with a great and furious rage.  This rage gives you enhanced strength, 
greater speed, as well as greater toughness.  The largest drawback is how much anger it fills its users with.
Use- Grants its users +4 to muscles, +2 tendons, and doubles the user's flesh.  The user must fight for the 
whole duration.  They can fight foes, friends, themselves, or even their environment.  After the effects wear off 
the user subtracts their extra flesh from what remains (even if it kills them).  Rage lasts for 2 minutes.
Value- 500-800

Name- Drip
Description- Some drinks never go out of style.  Technically known as alcohol, drip is the drink of choice when 
the cleanliness of water is in question.  Or when you don't want to remember the rest of the night.
Use- Quenching your thirst and getting you drunk at the same time.
Value- 1-25

Name- Cough
Description- The drug that makes you look cool while killing you, at the same time.  
Use- Helps with your street cred, but makes you look foolish to older people.
Value- 1-10

Currencies
Most regions have fallen onto a simpler barter system to exchange goods and services.  Few areas have started bringing 
around currencies to represent wealth and simplify trading.  Values can vary from region and very rarely transfer from 
one town to another.

Name- Coin
Description- A hunk of precious metal stamped with an image or writing to deter counterfeiting.  Easier to Cary around 
instead of barter goods.
Use- Exchange them for goods or services at a place that accepts them.
Value- 1-100

Name- Brass
Description- The leftovers from shooting a gun.  Not the part that does all the damage.
Use- Can be substituted for money with particularly violent areas.  
Value- 15-50

Name- Town notes
Description- Scraps of paper with official seals or signatures to represent particular amount of goods or services.  
Only works in a specific town or region.  Rarely transfer from one area to another.
Use- Even lighter riches than coins or brass.
Value- 1-25

Name- Land deeds
Description- Official paperwork to represent the ownership of a plot of land.  Only useful so long as the government 
that issued it isn't overthrown.
Use- Gives you claim to a chunk of land.
Value- 500-1,000

Name- Precious gems
Description- Precious gems typically set in jewelry. 
Use- Makes you look fancier than before.
Value- 5,000-10,000

Survival items
These are items that could possibly mean the difference between life and death.

Name- Refillable lighter
Description- A lighter that you can dump any flammable liquid into to start a fire.
Use- Become the fire starter, wicked fire starter.
Value- 150-375

Name- Rope
Description- A length of sturdy rope.  Strong enough to hold you and all your baggage.  Long enough to get you 
there and back.
Use- Helps you when elevators and ladders aren't available.
Value- 5-25

Name- Flashlight
Description- Nothing is better in dark and uncertain times than a reliable flashlight to push the darkness back.
Use- Banish the darkness of the world.  Or at least a small circle of it.
Value- 75-95

Name- Utility knife
Description- Is it a knife? Can opener?  Or a whole tool kit?  
Use- Yes!
Value- 30-145

Name- Tent
Description- An adventurer's home away from home.  Protects you from the elements.
Use- Gives you a warm and slightly comfortable place to sleep.
Value- 75-195

Navagation aids
Tools to help you figure out where you are and how to get where you're going.

Name- Road map
Description- A map showing the pre-plague road system.  There's a 50/50 chance that the map is still useful.
Use- Shows you where you are, and if you're lucky, where you're going.
Value- 50-300

Name- Compass
Description- One of the simplest of navigation tools.  It always points in the same direction.
Use- Helps you keep on the straight and narrow path.
Value- 15-45

Name- GPS
Description- A very sophisticated electronic device that tells you exactly where you are.  Or it should if the 
advances satellites still functioned, roads were still usable, or the batteries still had a charge in them.
Use- If it works it gives you the most accurate directions possible.  Otherwise it's a sophisticated paper weight.
Value- 5,000-9,000

Name- Slide ruler
Description- This ruler measures distances and allows you to perform advanced calculations.  Think of it as a super 
ruler or a basic calculator.
Use- Lets you calculate distances, fuel consumption, and all sorts of other useful maths.
Value- 5-15

Name- Wrist watch
Description- A clock you can keep on your wrist.  Tells you what time it is in either digital or analog format.
Use- Lets you know what time it is without those pesky solar clocks.
Value- 90-135

Electronics

Name- Battery
Description- The chemical process in these produces electricity.  Just be sure to test that they still work before 
you pay for them.
Use- Power your electronic devices.
Value- 100-300

Name- Desktop computer
Description- A full sized computer complete with all the accessories and cords to make it work.  You'll need a steady 
and consistent power source to make it work though.
Use- Capable of advanced calculations and simulations.  But you'll probably just use it to play games and waste time on 
what remains of the Internet.
Value- 1,000-15,000

Name- Radio
Description- A device that sends audio signals out through the air and receives radio waves that are sent out.
Use- Allows communication over long distances.
Value- 1,000-3,000

Name- Camera
Description- Using the power of chemistry or electricity, allows you to save a particular image perfectly forever.  
Digital version needs batteries and the film version needs film.
Use- Lets you take pictures.
Value- 900-1,250

Travel items

Name- Binoculars
Description- these help far away things look much closer.
Use- Lets you peer into the distance and see much more than you would without.
Value- 75-90

Name- Sleeping bag
Description- A bag full of you.  At least while you sleep.
Use- All the covers you'll need to stay warm on a cold night that rolls up for convient packing away.
Value- 15-45

Name- Spork
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Cooking pot
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Matches
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Containers

Name- Rucksack
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Briefcase
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Backpack
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Wallet
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Purse
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Foods

Name- Unlabled can
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Fresh berries
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Jerkey
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Hot sauce
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Hot homemade stew
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Skill assistants

Name- Fools manual for shootouts
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Lockpicks
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Measuring tape
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Compact
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Philips head screwdriver
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Luxury items

Name- 2 ply toilet paper
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Acoustic guitar
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Brown teddy bear
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- (specific) game
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 

Name- Pepper
Description- 
Use- 
Value- 
