Introduction

First off, if you can understand the words on this page, congratulations. Literacy is a rare skill to possess these days. Most would rather learn to do a more functional skill such as hunting, scavenging, or pillaging. Understanding what's written is one thing, understanding about this world in general is another thing. My task was to organize a cohesive collection of information about humanity's past in order to better prepare humanity to struggle existing for just a little longer bit longer. 

Now believe me when I say that this book is by far the most comprehensive source of information available. When I say that, it is not a boast, but a statement of fact. I have put my life into finding, securing, transcribing and preserving the truth of how the world fell into the disgraced state it now lies in. This has been quite an undertaking. 

It turns out not many others are nearly as interested in the preservation of our ancient history as I am. The best stashes of history seem to be secreted in the most foul of places. Libraries’ catalogs reduced to fire starters. Irradiated newspaper archives inhabited by maddened rotters. Video caches under cities that have been reduced to a pile of jagged rubble. There were countless other little slices of misery I braved to get even mere scraps of information. 

With my intention being to allow the accounts I have organized together do all the instruction necessary, I will refrain from interjecting my thoughts and opinions into this work. Alas I will not always be able to have this be the case. Some of the works that I include will require some explanation of one sort or another. In such a case, the best example being this very introduction, I will do my absolute best to keep my commentary as brief, but in depth as possible.

These words I offer to you, with the hope that they teach you something of use.

Best regards,
-Eddie Ikon.
Or
-edd.

March 14
My psychiatrist told me that keeping a journal would help with the therapy, so here I am writing about all my little day to day problems. I burned dinner and Allen wasn’t too happy about it, but if he would help me with the kid instead of playing on his goddamn computer all the time, then it wouldn’t have happened.  I got a call from Timmy’s principal saying that he’s been skipping classes. I tried to talk to Allen about it, but he said something about nearly being level 73 or some such nonsense and continued to play his games. I swear that I married a child and not a man. If he played with me nearly as much as his fucking computer, then this marriage would be a million times better.

March 17
I went to the shrink again, and for the money that I pay him I would think that he would actually do something other than tell me to relax. Everyone tells me “just relax” or “calm down”, but when I ask them to do something or help me out they tell me the same tired old stories about being too busy. Story of my fucking life.  I wish that things would be like they were between me and Allen when we first got married.  But after he got his job, it seems that all he does is work, sleep, play, and shit.

April 3
I think that Allen finally got the hint. We sent Timmy over to my mother’s house for the night and he took me out to a nice dinner. It was the first time in as long as I can remember that he didn’t use the computer for a whole day. He even did things that we hadn’t done since we had Timmy. Somehow I just feel that it is like trying to fix a burnt meal with too much salt.

April 5
Timmy was out of school today because he’s coming down with something. I want to call it the flu, but it’s the middle of spring. I’m really starting to worry about him though, so I’ll take him to 
the doctor in the morning. His temperature has been high all day and nothing that I do will cool him off. Even the crackpot remedies that Mom told me don’t seem to help him. At least he will be playing hooky for a good reason for once.

April 6
After four aggravating hours in the waiting room, I decided that the doctors can’t do anything for Timmy. It seems like everyone is getting the flu. It was even on the news tonight.

April 7
Timmy has taken a turn for the worse. He is burning up so much that he is delusional and speaking to hallucinations. What scares me is that Allen has now gotten whatever Timmy has.  Whatever it is, it’s very nasty. I guess that the house will be pretty full during the day. Just when I was getting used to having an empty house.  The news said that this new bug is pretty bad, but they won’t say anything else about it. I tried to call the hospital all day and the lines are all busy. I think that I’ll take the whole family to the doctor in the morning.

April 13
My son is dead. Even writing these words doesn’t take the numbness away. I have been crying all day without realizing it. I can’t believe it. I have read the first four words at the beginning of this and it still seems dreamlike. Allen hasn’t gotten out of the bed all day and I feel so alone.

Though it seems like an innocent diary, this is the earliest scrap of writing I was able to find.  
-edd.

September 18th, 10:49 PM
A fine book made with the finest materials to keep track of my accomplishments.  Things are moving up and i want to remember every detail possible.

September 19th, 9:13 PM
Profit margins are up for this fiscal quarter. To celebrate this news, I bought a new Fairlane ZX-11. It was worth every red cent I paid for it.  I took Lucy out again. She was also worth every penny that I spent on her.  Damson, the CFO, has put me in charge of overseas investments. I know that I can do a much better job than any of the other junior executives ever could. Now is the time for me to at last 
prove it.

September 24, 7:25 PM
After researching the various investments, I have decided that the best opportunity for our company to peruse is to invest very heavily in an up and coming company operating in Hong Kong and Madrid with a large presence here in the US by the name of Celestheal.  They had some kind of experimental vaccine that they were working on that was generating a great deal of interest. I’m not too sure on the particulars because they hid behind a lot of technical jargon. I presented the information to Damson and he gave me the go ahead to pour everything we’ve got into it.

October 1st, 12:01 PM
Today the market took a huge loss. This flu, which they’re starting to call, “The Plague” is really taking people out of action. This hit to our market was offset by a great rise in both the Asian and European markets. Looks like I jumped on the Asian band wagon at exactly the right moment. Celestheal 
is growing by leaps and bounds. I dumped all of my own personal resources I could into it before the prices rose too high. I’m going to make a killing thanks to this company.

October 3rd, 11:37 PM
Lucy won’t return my calls. For how much I pay her for a single night’s work, you would think that she would at least answer the phone more often.  Forget it, I’ll call her again.

October 4th, 8:46 AM
After all the care that I take to keep myself as physically attractive is for naught. My skin is drying out and no creams that I try to sue are having any effect on my dry skin. I still can’t get a hold of Lucy.

October 4th, 9:33 AM
I finally figured out why Lucy isn’t answering the phone. After a substantial bribe I was told that 
she took a vaccine to help her fight off that flu plague that sweeping the nation. The vaccine that Celestheal produced. It somehow made her stomach begin eating itself.  What scares me more than that is I invested everything I had into the company that produced the vaccine. But the thing that shakes 
me to the core, is that I also took that injection yesterday.

October 4th, 12:33 PM
I can’t ever leave my apartment again. Last I heard, the European market collapsed in on itself.  The collapse was a direct result of that damn Plague arriving on of our damn planes. And now it’s ravaging the countryside. The US market is at record lows and there is no solution possible to fix the situation. Asia has sealed it’s borders and won’t allow any details out. I’ve been fired.  All my money was invested in a company that turned humans into terrible freaks. What’s the worst part 
of all…
I’m one of those terrible freaks.

October 5th, 3:01 AM
This is the last thing I’m ever going to write. I am now a horrid creature that isn’t human anymore. My job and finances are all in the toilet. The closest thing to a person that I love died a wretched screaming death because of a company’s product that I helped fund. I just hope that the shotgun doesn’t leave much of my hideous face. So I guess the next thing for me to say
would be something cliché like, “Good bye cruel world.”

After all that the Syrum has done to hurt and help so many people, to find an account of someone who was part of it’s creation and distribution!
-edd.

Thursday
Out of an entire buildin’, this was all that was worth takin’. I guess them damn scavs got all the good stuff. I found this by a stiff. It seems that I see more stiffs than people. Most everyone that is alive is pretty ugly nowadays. What with that damn syrum thing that messed us all up. It made some pretty ugly folk that you run into wanderin’ around. Though I guess that I am not much of a looker anyhow, after catchin that car bomb with my face and all.

Saturday
I was pickin’ at the scabs that make up what is left of my face, when I peeled this off. I think that I am gonna to keep it here, just in case.

Monday
My head hurts. I had to beat a guy with a board and I ended up takin’ his shoes. They don’t fit too good, but they’ll keep my feet from bleedin’ so damn much. It really pisses me off that I have to leave town just because I’m ugly and missin’ most of my teeth. Damn the government for declaring martial law and “seperating” those of us who got all sorts of messed up by that
Syrum. “For our own protection.” They’s the ones who need protectin’. Just because I had to be all messed up by that horseshit vaccine to stay alive and that damn car bombd. It’s ain’t my
fault. Well at least I won’t be alone, looks like all of us freaks are getting kicked out of town by those “holier than thou” government pricks. Fuck ‘em, we’ll build a better town anyway.

Friday
I found the most pretty woman today wanderin’ with the rest of us refugees. Her name is Tracy and she’s got clear blue eyes. She understands how I feel like none else. I have to be kinda
careful though, if I hug her too tight, her skin tends to fall off in chunks. And after a while I guess I can get over her smellin’ like something that curled up and died about a month ago with almonds.

Sunday
Well we finally started that town that I was talkin’ about. We don’t need the government and their damn martial law to rule our lives. We’ll be able to do it ourselves. Seeing how I used to
work on ‘em a while ago, I get to fix up the power plant. I’m thinkin’ bout takin Tracy out on a walk soon. She is the prettiest darn thing I ever saw, even if most of her hair is fallin’ out.

Monday
Got the power up and runnin’ finally. Feels like it took forever, but anythin’ worth doin’ is worth doin’ right. The pompous ass of a mayor came down and rambled on and on and on about how important that I am to the town and bla bla bla. The guy never shuts up. I think that I’ll live up here, seein how it’s nice and warm, and nobody ever comes out here, cept when there’s a problem.

Saturday
Tracy came by, and one thing led to another and now she’s asleep upstairs. She sure is swell.  I’m thinking about marryin’ that woman.

Friday
Well Tracy and I are hitched. We are goin’ out on our honeymoon at the end of the week. I just gotta teach someone how to keep the juice flowin’ through our grand ol’ town. Man I am so excited.

Tuesday
Got back from my honeymoon. That damn lackey that I taught fucked up my system. Now I gotta get things back the way I like ‘em. The mayor is callin’ a meetin’ tonight to complain about somethin’ or another. That guy never stops bitchin’ and whinin’. The one thing that struck me was what he said that there were rumors of an all out war breaking out in Europe. Somethin’
bout this bein’ as bad as that great war all those years ago. Seems nasty is all i know.

Sunday
Tracy’s got a bun in the oven! We’re gonna have us a little tike of our own! The Doc checked both of us out and said something about passin’ on “geen itic ab normie ladys” or some-such nonsense. Damn doctors always usin’ such big words. Why can’t he just speak English?

Saturday
It’s been a while since I wrote, but I’ve been workin’ on getting my hole ready for the tike and keeping this town in juice. But I now have a son! His name is John Deck Morris. He’s got
Tracy’s eyes, and my strong jaw. The Doc says that we gotta keep a close eye on him, cus he got some kinda infection and he smells kinda like almonds Just like my Tracy.

Friday
Went over to the town square and the family got a good ol’ picture taken. Here it is. Ain’t John just the cutest kid you ever did see?

Wednesday
There were some funny rumors of a bunch o’ people attackin’ from far off. I just thought it was ol’ Vinne Two Fingers gettin’ into the moonshine too heavily. Still i’m gonna take Tracy and
John to the mountians in a coupla days.

I wasn’t able to find out what happened to them.  
-edd.

WELCOMING STATEMENT
Today is the beginning of a very important part of your life. You have taken your first step on your journey into the field of transgene counseling. You will be among the first pioneers to explore this newly opened field of mental care. The responsibility and demands are great, but the rewards are boundless! 

So on the behalf of the Celestheal Medical Group we would like to welcome you to the Transgenes About Face in Fighting Ignorant Enemies, or TAFFIE support group leadership 

BEGINNING YOUR OWN SUPPORT GROUP
Now that you have this official guide book, and your official TAFFIE leadership bundle which includes;
your official TAFFIE leadership identification shirt
*crap*
your official common TAFFIE questions with answers pamphlets
*crap*
your official TAFFIE trouble maker subduing taser
*:-) (smiley face)*
your official TAFFIE order bring bell
*crap*
your official TAFFIE interested parties attacting posters 24 official TAFFIE marking pencils
*didn't even get these!* 

With the official TAFFIE support group you are now ready to begin setting up your very own TAFFIE group.  The following will give you some valuable advice on the initial set up process.  Then this guide book will take you through your first few meetings, and even the entire way to increasing your membership.

IS THIS SOMETHING THAT WILL WORK IN MY JURISDICTION?
The short answer is a resounding yes! Everybody who recieved the Celestheal Medical Group's lifesaving injection is going to have some personal changes that they are going to have to adjust to. Your job is to aid and console the reciepients, and subsiquent children of reciepients. Also as a result of the class action lawsuit the Celestheal Medical Group is not legally allowed to deny the forming of any TAFFIE support group in any jurisdiction. 

The long answer is that not every community can benifit from transgene counseling. 

There is a sizable percentage of the population that have an inherant immunity to the plague. These static-gene people do not require counsoling for a condition they do not possess. As such their communities wouldn't be an ideal location to establish your TAFFIE meeting hall. 
*just call them "immune" everybody else does.  lucky whiners will sometimes attend these meetings to ease their consciences.  don't spend the WHOLE meeting making fun of them.*

Another group of people that would not benefit from the TAFFIE support are those who have renounced technology, the techno-forsakers. These are the ones who incorrectly believe that technology is the source of the problems of the world and have sworn off the use of it. As such they also forsake the us of the restorative Celestheal Healing Injection, and they do not have to deal with the transgene condition. Also they are known for their cannibalistic practices and should be avoided at all costs. 
*mostly called "primates".  techno-forsakers is just stupid.  sometimes they'll be interested in some transgene counseling, but you can't call it that.  they respond better to shamanistic activities, such as rituals of grief, rain dances, or my personal favorite coping feasts. also the usual term for the "Celestheal Healing Injection" is "syrum" or "The Syrum" when used in reverence.*

The final group of people that you should avoid establishing a TAFFIE hall for are the roent-genetic people. Their bodies are disease carriers and they have been found to give off deadly amounts of radiation. Exposure to these people should be avoided, unless adequate protection can be ensured. 
*even disgusting rotters need our help too.  just need to take protective steps first (full body coverings, lead barriers, and a ton of air fresheners.)*

Funding 
(Celestheal Medical Group does not offer any finincial support or repayment for any services rendered on you or your group's behalf.)

To get enough coin to run your group meetings, you should be independently wealthy.  The best way to become such is to heavily invest in an upwardly growing company, such as Celestheal Medical Group.
*more crap.  might as well rob banks. or become one of those "wasteland wanderers" and try to salvage from a dead city or something...*

If for whatever reason you find yourself in need of funding for the establishment of or the running of your TAFFIE meetings, you will have to raise money yourself.  The two avenues available to you are collecting member fees and petitioning wealthy benifactors.

Collecting member dues is the easier of the two methods.  You provide a service (transgene counseling) to the people of your community, and they should in turn provide you with finincial compensation.  The Celestheal Medical Group can not give you any "advice" on what to charge your group members, but we know you'll figure something out eventually.
*vauge as always. keep the number low and always be open to bartering. many more respond to going to a meeting that can be paid for with a decent dinner than demanding hard coin. the rewards may be a little less predictable, but the kindness of strangers can sometimes be much greater than you expect.*

On the other hand if you can find a person or company that would sponsor your group enough coin per month to run your meetings then you should take them up on their offer.  Having a promised place to stay and a meal to eat will ease your mind.  Without distraction you can focus more keeping your meetings exciting and interesting for your group members.
*do not do this. far too many counselors have dissapeared without a trace because of this terrible advice.*

SELECTING YOUR LOCATION
Now that you know some places that you shouldn't establish a TAFFIE hall, here is some "advice" on where to establish your meeting hall. (The is "advice", any other "advice" or any incidents stemming from the following of this or any "advice" from Celestheal Medical Group or any of it's affiliates is at the risk of the person. Celestheal Medical Group is in no way liable for any injury to persons, property, or ideals that may be the result of any "advice" given by Celestheal Medical Group or any of it's affiliated companies.) 

The first thing you need to do is find a hall to use to hold the meetings. Make sure that your selected location is large enough to hold your group meetings and have some space left over so your little group can grow.  Some great examples of such include;
Store fronts
*shopkeepers LOVE this. not really. don't bother*
Inside stores
*even worse than in front of the store.*
Abandoned buildings
*great if you don't mind rats and building collapses*
Open fields
*not bad except for when the weather is bad.*
Theaters
*actually a pretty good location, if you can find one to use.*
At member's houses
*very bad. don't give stalkers any help at all.*
Any other place you can have a meeting at a regular time and day.
*really?!*

Advertising guidelines
Next you should do is go through your jurisdiction and find the places where the people who would benefit most from TAFFIE would spend their time. Some examples of these places include,
Churches
*not too bad actually. gotten some good responses from churches*
Local general goods stores
*fair at best.*
Gentlemen's establishments
*what the hell is this?!*
Coffee shops
*i still have yet to actually find one of these.*
Office buildings
*double check with the owners first.*
Commuter parking lots
*only useful if people commute.*
Restraunts
Libraries
*be very nice to the gaurds if you want to put them here*
Intellectual gathering places 
*what?!*

When you find the best places to hang your official TAFFIE interested parties attacting posters ask the owner of the location for their permission to hang up the poster. Remember, now you're an official representative of the Celestheal medical group. Be sure to act like one! Also don't forget that you need to fill in the missing information giving the location of the meeting as well as the time and date. 

Advice on poster creation
After a while you will find that your official TAFFIE interested parties attracting posters either become badly damaged or they become ignored.  Either way you will eventually need to make some TAFFIE interested parties attracting posters yourself.  Here is some advice on how to properly target your posters to get the largest, most diverse groups you can for your TAFFIE meetings.

The rest of the manual was illegible.  I’m lucky I got what you see from the book, considering how irradiated it was.  Also asterisks indicate handwritten notes found near, under, or on top of passages.
-edd.

I can’t believe that I paid so much for half a notebook, but I required it to keep track of my day to day activities. First I shall introduce myself; my name is Sarah Unabridged Webster.  Aside from the periodical raids from the local marauders, very little excitement goes on around here. This is thanks in no small part to the small squad of soldiers posted here that have kept the
others seperate from us.

Some of those other local children were watching me again. They have a look of disgust when their eyes settle upon me. It is though I bear some unseen stigmata that the others can witness,
but I can’t see. They themselves are the ones who were disfigured by the injection. I can’t help it if my immune system is stronger than theirs is. I am saddened that the people that I live with view me with such hatred. I wish that those soldiers would only take me away from all this squalor and back into one of the great shining cities.

There have been whispers of the others banding together and kicking the normal people out of Wasserville. This is dreadful news. We’re just trying to help them in their terrible state. The
soldiers are getting nervous about the others. Speaking of soldiers, I had a chance to get to know one of them better. His name is Stephen and he’s a Corporal. Oh is he georgeous in that uniform of his. We must have talked for hours on end about everything.

There was a spat between the others and the soldiers today. The soldiers were trying to get an estimate as to how may others we actually had, seeing how dozens come shuffling in every day.
The others didn’t want the soldiers to come into their precious slum for whatever reason. Stephen was shot in the arm by one of the others. Of all the places he could have stayed to
recover, he chose my house! He’s sleeping peacefully in the other room right now. Some of the local hoodlums have took it upon themselves to show me and Stephen just how unwelcome we are in “their” town. My wounds will heal, but the emotional pain will linger for
quite some time. I can’t believe how they spit in our faces while we try our best to help them with their condition.

My god. They’ve overthrown the government! All of the freaks that we were trying to help and find a way to restore to normalcy overthrew our government! I don’t know what I am going to do. Stephen says that we should try to get to the capital because if there is any government still around, it would be there.

I can hear the people beating at my door. They must have finally had enough of us. I just wanted to be with Stephen and be happy. But they just wouldn’t let us. They are coming down the stairs, if only we had more time to leave. I don’t want to die like th-

Ah love blooming under dire circumstances.  It warms my heart.
-edd.

Split the dirt open,
Place the seed within the ground,
Earth provides for us.

Harvest is stolen,
Army's protection kills us,
Why do we suffer?

Forces attack us,
Protection finally works,
Hope for better days.

Fighting is spreading,
Others suffer like we do,
They too steal our crops.

New ruler, old rules,
Food feeds fighters, not farmers,
Hunger haunts us all.

Goats, chickens, cows and pigs,
All fall under the fighter's blade,
Our bellies growl.

Crops are failing us,
Bellies plead us for more food,
So very hungry.

When one weed is cut,
Another one takes it's place,
Yet nothing changes.

Flames dance all around,
Our earthly toils gone,
Little food remains.

Beasts cry in the night,
Blood soaks onto the charred ground, 
They kill not to eat.

Counting our ribs,
Hunger consumes our thoughts,
Nothing left to eat.

An idea blooms,
Born of a desperate hunger,
How could we do it?

Scouts wander the wastes,
Always come back with nothing,
No food remains.

With a solom hand,
Lots determine our fate,
Longhorn Rob will be...

Ron's sacrifice helps,
Our stomaches stop growling,
Gnawing horror stays.

With grusome answer,
Drooling mouths meet in secret,
Terrible plans formed.

Cannibalism,
Raise them like the livestock was,
Delicious murder.

Eating other men,
These words shall be my final,
Ends justify means.

These little poems were carved on a series of fence posts and they seem to capture the events that lead to our current livestock selection.
-edd.

3
I ned to kep trak of MY thee first kil of the MIGHTY KARL 7.62 BALL. I keep this as a log of the great konquests that I am sure to hav. On this day MY felow kilrs and I have kild over 31 people. Three wer MY victims. There wer few spoils to take, but the foods made it worth it.

7
I, the POWERFUL KARL 7.62 BALL hav kild the rats that snuck into MY tent this night. The rats were once best mates of MINE who wished to overthrow ME in MY command of MY men.  I was unabl to get information from the vermin before they died. Only a fool would send three tiny boys to kil the POWERFUL KARL 7.62 BALL.

10
I am happy to say that I found a family living along the road we were going on. I hadn’t kild anyone in a month and I was geting bothered. KARL 7.62 BALL, the MAGNIFICENT slaughtered the family of five before anyon knew what I was doing. The house contained nothing worth keeping.

13
Our patrol cam upon an enemy patrol of the despicabl hick military. They ran and hid away from us. It took MY valiant troops the better part of the day to destroy them. While interrogating their cowardly leader I, the TERRIFYING KARL 7.62 BALL learned that the inferior hick military here demonstrated their cowardice by unleashing their nuklear arms on our home land.  For this act of cowardac, we will ravage their landscap.

14
We have captured another soldier who has told us, after much interrogation, that the foolish hick military have let loose chemical weapons on our allis. He told ME, the ALL KNOWING KARL 7.62 BALL, Knows that we are made of honor, valor, and truth!

19
Tomorow the UNDEFEATABLE KARL 7.62 BALL and HIS INVINCIBLE army wil meet their
enemies, the hick swine, on the field of battl. I know in MY heart we shal be
victorious.

This makes my head hurt.  This is why you need to pay attention when you’re in school.
-edd.

The world has been through quite a few dramatic changes, so here is something to bring you up to date on what the world is like now.  The world in general Earth isn’t the fertile garden that it used to be. Due to the plagues, warfare, and chemical warfare unleashed on such an grand scale, most of the world is a desolate wasteland. The few areas that aren’t corrupted are zealously protected by the people and creatures living there. On the majority, the world is polluted by radioactive fallout, defoliants, chemicals of all varieties, or
the ashes of civilization.  

Most info about areas outside the nearby towns is full of rumors, myth and mostly forgotten geography.  Most people are peacefully content with what is going on in their particular town.  The next town over is rarely visited, boundaries of countries are vague at best, with “governments” struggling to hold what they have.   I have gone to great pains to gather some information about each of the continents, but trustworthy data is scant at best.
-edd.

Europe
Once considered the most beautiful and civilized continent, it has fallen far from it’s former grace. With it’s numerous political and religious divisions Europe was host to the most internal strife, civil wars, and rebel actions. Everyone turned their greedy sights upon their neighbors.  Skies were blacked out by the bombs that were loosed by a legion of planes. The earth moved with the boot steps of a horde of soldiers moving to secure more lands. Countless ages of history were rendered to dust by the fighting. One turn of luck spared the continent from the horrors of nuclear weapons. Alas conventional weapons were used in unimaginable amounts to make up
for the lack of nuclear arms.  What few pockets of civilization that still exist are scattered and in ruin. Survivors are clinging
desperatly to the crumbling ruins of their formerly grand civilization. The georgeous
countryside is scarred deeply with bomb craters and rusted hulks of long abandoned war machines. The great cities have all collapsed inward on themselves and offer the inhabitants little more than a new and exciting way to die. Most people stick to the small suburbs that orbit the great cities and scratch out an existance in the gloomy shadow of the ruined cities.  Government in Europe is at most isolated feudal kingdoms. Most degrade themselves into nothing more than roving packs of marauders. Traveling from place to place, taking whatever resources the area can provide for them and remaining only as long as the location can sustain them. The marauders roam from place to place like starving locust, always taking and never giving back. The few small feudal kingdoms survive in fortified structures and have the know how and the supplies to repel, and in some rare cases obliterate, the regular marauder assualts.
There is no centralized power structure. Like the rest of the world Europe has fallen back on it’s history to come up with the rule that works best. With absolutely no centeral rule, the monitary system of Europe has reverted to the archaic barter system.

Africa
So a great and deadly plague once ravashed the world. It killed off untold billions of people.
While everyone was dying scientists and doctors scrambled to find anything that could stop or at the very least slow the disease. The standard methods quickly proved helpless. In desperation they turned to less ethical methods for combating the sickness. One particularly popular idea was that the great and mysterous continent of Africa would hold the cure in one of it’s countless flora or fauna.
So hundreds of expeditions were launched to probe the inner secretes of the great African
wilderness. countless scores of labs were quickly set up to carry out any experiments that the scientists could concoct. When the pillaged wildlife offered no cure, the scientists used the newly discovered cure-all, the syrum, to continue their mad experiments. They spliced, sliced, and sundered any genetic code they could find and then threw it into a blender with the syrum to see what would come out. The results varied from mildly interesting to the terrifying.  At first the experiments were contained or destroyed as necessary by the scientists and anyone they could get to lend a hand. After a time the numbers of experiments skyrocketed. Naturally escapes began happening with more and more frequency. Eventually the thick forests were alive
with a new kind of wildlife. This wildlife had the best possible aspects of the animal kingdom.
Unknown to those who created these creatures they spied from the shadows of the forest.  Patiently waiting and silently watching the creatures learned and grew. In due time they formed tribes of their own and descended upon the scientific community in an all sweeping offensive.  That was the last thing heard about Africa. Most believe that it is run by primitive tribal societies warring with one another in the deep wilds of Africa.

South America
Strangely enough of the continents hit by the plague, the one hit the hardest was in fact not the origin of the plague itself. South America was overwhelmed by the plague within days of it crossing the border. Unknown reasons caused the plague spread more rapidly then anywhere else. The whole continent was infected before the first useful drug was created to combat it. The result is an entire continent very nearly devoid of human life, in it's altered state or otherwise.  The few survivors survived because of their lucky immunities and have scratched out meager and isolated existences all on their own. To find one person alive is extremely lucky. To find two is rare. Finding a group of people alive in South America is impossible. That does not deter would be adventure seekers from striking off into the vast jungles of South America.
As for the massive foot print that the previous inhabitants left on South America with the cities, the jungle has done it's best to swallow it. The cities are choked with vines, trees, and unhindered animals wandering about without a care. Suburbs have vanished in thick growth and the roads were covered long ago.

Antarctica
The great frozen continent. Antartica is the only continent with no native population. Before the plague countries around the world would send their researchers to the frozen waste to discover the secretes encased below the thick ice. These meager populations were kept alive only by the constant supply of foods and fuels sent from their home countries.
As the plague ravshed these home countries, the outposts began to have less and less significance.  Some researchers were recalled by thoughtful people before things got too bad. Eventually nobody could be sparred to send anything out to such a remote and desolate land. The communications recieved begged at first. They also threatened, pleaded, begged, and finally cursed. Then the communications stopped all together.  Most assume that the frozen wastes swallowed up the few researchers and burried their puny
stations under a white blanket. These research stations, if found, could contain the very best pre plague scientific supplies in very good condition. Though there is whispered rumors of small groups scraping out a pittiful existance in the frozen wastes desperatly clinging to life. Loathing the world that chose to forget them.

Australia
When the plague ravashed the lands, many nations saw fit to take advantage of their weakened enemies. Other nations saw fit to find new enemies. Australia fell into the final category. During one of the countless meetings of the horrors going on in the world, Australia was insulted. Now people may have been sensitive before the plague, but not that sensitive. This insult must have cut the Australians right to the core. After storming out of the meeting hall the Australian ran
home and told the nation of the unexcuseable insult. The whole nation was so enraged by it that they all united behind the diplomat and began to make plans to go to war.
Thanks to it’s isolated location Australia was untouched by the plague. While it’s fighting force may not have been the largest or best equipped before the plague, thanks to the plague they had quickly become the largest standing army. But this army alone would not be enough. They sought assistance from an unlikely ally. They found a friend in Asia and were backed with the arms, armor, and money that they so needed.  In record time they were prepaired for war and launched their offensive against the wretched Northern Americas. Things went very well with the attack at first. The whole continent was taken by surprise and no retailation seemed possible thanks to the decimated populations. That was not the case. It only takes one person to press a button. That is how Australia became an irradiated wasteland. America dropped the bomb. Well not just one. The whole continent was
saturated with nuclear fire.  Australia is currently still heavily irradiated and no one has returned from explorations. Miles off
the shores the radiation is high enough to break most geiger counters. Anything that may have survived the nuclear bombs would very quickly adapt to become a very strange and unknown creature to this world. Even with all the other freaks roaming about.

Asia
Asia did their best to leap on a moment of weakness for what they thought was their greatest enemy. With the plague ravishing the world, Asia noticed that the northern Americas were sundered to their knees by the plague. Seeing a chance they would never have again, they fully funded and backed the unplagued Australian fighting force to invade. As it became more and more appearant that the Aussies wouldn’t be able to pull off the flawless victory that Asia desired,
they unleashed the nuclear stockpiles that were hidden away. For better or worse the estimates of global destruction were overly ambitious. Most estimates put it at around 80% of the nuclear weapons used failed or wildly missed and irradiated the seas. In one final attack the US retaliated by dumping every defoilant possible into Asia.
The poisons spread quickly, carried far and wide by the lofty winds. The result was a desert wasteland. With no plants to speak of the soil quickly degenerated into horrid sands that blasted and buried everything. The few who have not fled the continent scratch out an existance in the small oasis’ that tempt travelers, or the brave ones will force their way into one of the former buildings and try to eek out an existance there. Praying every day that the shifting sands don’t shift into their home and bury them alive.  The few wretched souls that do scratch out an existence in the sands of Asia do so in small bands lead by a single person, usually the fool charismatic enough to lure people into Asia in the first place. These caravans drool at the desire to salvage untold treasures from under the crushing sands. Most simply dissapear into the sands. Any trading that goes on is usually done at gunpoint, so any currency the stronger wishes to charge rules.

North America
North America got a little taste of every version of hell during the confusion. It got an invasion from a former ally. Chemical weapons launched on it’s cities from home grown terrorists. It is lucky enough to be one of the two manufacturing centers of the syrum production. As a final insult North America was the proud parent of the deadly plague itself.
With it being the epicenter of the plague, North America didn’t suffer any more deaths in the
population than the rest of the world. It’s governments tried their best to keep on functioning as though there wasn’t a world ending plague ravashing the lands. Then came the unexpected attack from the former ally of Australia. This rattled the nation and spurred it to action. It began with a total irradiation of Australia. Rounding up all the chemical weapons they could they launched a retailation on the nations of Asia. In the process of mustering all the combat
able troops to invade Asia, the people of North America reeled at the brutality of the retaliations. In a short time, the people enacted their power to overthrow the governments. The major problem was that there wasn’t any alternative that everyone could agree on. So very quickly the
countries of North America descended into anarchy. Factions formed for protection and were swallowed up by other factions. Dictators rose overnight and fell nearly as quickly. Even the noble democracy has failed to reestablish a sensible sort of order in North America.
Thus the continent of North America lies as of today, in an unsettled balance of chaos. Thanks to it’s varied landscape of unpleasantness, the game of Ad Emag takes place there. It offers the highest mountains to climb and the lowest depths to descend into. It is possible to travel to, begin in, or stay on other continents, but for the scope of this book, it will assume that the players will stay in the North Americas.