Myth-Maker Assistance

Here’s a little help for the most difficult role one can take. So here it is.

Player deaths
So you’re ready to be big myth-maker, huh? Well as important as the myth-maker is, the game is
much less exciting without the players themselves. So this section is dedicated to task of
preventing the untimely and unpleasant act of player’s deaths. It should be noted that it is
undesireable, people do die, adventurers most of all. yet if done properly a player’s death can be
the apex of a great character’s life. It’s the difference between valliantly sacrificing your life to
save the world versus getting knifed in the back by some two bit mugger. Food for thought.
NPC’s (Non Player Characters) are the number one character killer. Remember that though you
have to control masses of them, each NPC is all unique in their own way. They happen to be
people themselves, with wants, desires, and needs. As such there are not many people that will
mindlessly kill another person for no good reason. Detaining, harrassing, and a good old beating
are much easier to persuade a person into doing. But killing requires someone to do some heavy
persuading, and who’s calling doing the persuading? What measure of power does their puppet
master have over their puppet? Could the players perhaps use this manipulation to their own
advantage? Villains should not be willing to risk their own death for just anything. Some usual
methods of eliciting a deadly response would be; the threat of death to themselves or their loved
ones, large heaps of money, manipulated insanity, or protection of a beloved institution. As such,
NPC’s should probably use at less than lethal attacks until it is desperatly necessary.
Players should also be offered plenty of opertunities to retreat from a deadly threat. Being
trapped in a corner always provokes a more aggressive response. Don’t be afraid to be less than
subtle with your hints either. While there should be an option for retreat, you don’t have to make
it the best option. It’s a dangerous and scary thing to turn your back on people who seek to make
you dead. But sometimes they just can’t win or even come to a survivable comprimise, the
characters may have to bite the bullet and make a dash for it. After all the hero that retreats
today lives to fight another day.
It is also a good thing to remember that players are not inside of your head. That would make a
really lame and unexciting game. What I mean is players won’t always think of the “obvious”
solution to a given problem. So if you are going to run a game with a very specific solution, be
prepaired to offer many obvious hints. Either that or be ready for a lot of bored and puzzled
players. The best way around this problem is to allow a lot of wiggle room for your players to
choose their own adventures. Not to the point of letting them run around with impunity but
allow more options than you can come up with.
On that very subject of player’s intelligence, they will probably make a few stupid mistakes. For
small mistakes just let them slide or gently correct them. Such as rolling small melee weapons to
beat a person with a pair of brass knuckles. Just remind the character that, though they’re armed,
it’s actually an unarmed attack. On the other hand doing things obviously foolish, such as
getting a discount at a store by threatening to kill the shop keeper, requires a different strategy.
Give the characters a last chance to change their minds about what they’re about to do. If they
don’t come to their senses roll with it. It could be the beginning of a wonderful and grand story
line you couldn’t have come up with on your own. That or it could end with the player’s
character dying. Though you always have the option to intervene and instead of killing off a
character you could simply maim them. Pain is a great teacher, and players can be remarkably
empathetic to their characters. Hurt their characters badly and chances are they won’t do what
caused them trouble in the first place. Unluckily you must resort to extreme measures when a
player has their heart set on acting like a fool. So in extreme cases it may require taking limbs
instead of lives.
The final thing i wanted to mention on the subject of character deaths isn’t necessarily about
their deaths. Imagine a player that has survived unimaginable trials, defeated epic foes, gained
even more epic items, and even saved civilization itself from the clutches of whatever evil.
There’s a point where a player should just let their character go and reset things. If the player is
resistant to a new character you could even have a whole nerd-tastic “passing of the torch” from
one character to the newer replacement. Complete with a ceremony you play out in it’s entirety.
That failing, just send assassins in the night to kill the character in question.

Non-player characters
So now that you know how to keep players alive, let’s discuss the non-player characters (NPC’s).
The overall point is that the NPC’s, despite being cannon fodder, are still people with
motovations, desires, wants, fears, and the whole range of humanity. It would be far too taxing
to play every single person in the world fully. So it is only necessary to give the illusion of such
to most NPC’s. Such treatment should be reserved for special villains. This attention to detail
isn’t suggested for friendly NPC’s. Doing so runs the risk of making the NPC’s the center of
attention when the players should be.
While you’re breathing life into your NPC’s, be sure to add in some flairs that can be used.
Details like a love for whittling, an annoying habit to whistle, wife and kids, or any other things
that make a person a person. These aspects can help the players connect to the NPC’s. It can
also give the players options to gain leverage on NPC’s. While this may be unpleasant i should
mention that the players are heavily outnumbered by the rest of the world and any advantage
helps them survive a little longer.
While discussing leverage over NPC’s there is a common method of manipulating them that has
some long term troubles. Bribes work fantastically to in the short term to get what players want.
The problem is if the players run into the same NPC, that NPC will know that they players will
offer money to the players for whatever reason. “Gee why not make a some extra cash again and
ask for more money this time.” more than likely goes through their head. So then the NPC asks
for more money. Thus can begin a cycle that can be most unpleasant for the players. This could
be a most pleasant chance for the myth maker to craft an entire epic from the players simply
offering some lackey a couple of bucks.
Now it’s time to focus in on a particular type of NPC your players will run into frequently. They
are the most usual antagonist while being the largest boon if used properly. They are the local
authorities, also known as the police. These NPC’s are charged with keeping the peace in their
little jurisdictions. The particular methods they employ are usually tied into their personalities.
You did give them some extra flair, right? Though the individual threshold for crime may vary,
the general reasons for arrest remain the same. The reasons are; to be held for questioning over
suspicious activity, protective custody of the person, commitment for dangerous insanity, and the
final reason being arrests to cover up nefarious acts. Release from imprisionment is typically
tied to the motives of the local authority him/herself.

Mental evolution/devolution
There exists a deficit of trained psychologists and psychotherapists. No steady supply of mood
stablizing drugs, theraputic methods, or even warm and fuzzy things to curl up with. Now is the
point where it should be noted that most everyone is at least a little crazy. The degrees of
madness and symptoms vary from person to person. Most people just have a couple of extra
quarks, such as lucky trinkets or quick rituals they have to do.
Offer players the chance to select their desired quarks when they roll up their characters. It could
give them another layer of depth to their characters. Total madness or an extreme case of
delusion should be persuaded against. Though it would make a very entertaining game, it can
make things tricky indeed. Especially if the characters don’t share in the same delusions.
Examples of madness can be easily found with little research. A couple of common and
interesting psychosis follow.
Multipal personalities are an extremely rare condition, but the effects are quite worth the rarity.
A minimum of two seperate personalities exist in the one body. These personalities are varied
enough to cause significant confusion to anyone who doesn’t know of this condition. A specific
stimuli triggers the switch between the personalities, such as anger, despair, the smell of oranges,
or falling asleep. The trigger can vary between personalities, or be a general stimuli. This
psychosis should be reserved for very rare moments.
Everyone day dreams from time to time. Every once in a while a person will day dream and stay
there. For good. These people usually have a traumatic event happen to them and their brain
seeks to find a world that’s easier to cope with. People afflicted with this will often think
themselves an idealized version of what they actually are. A great and brave hero, georgeous
vixen, or the stealthy thief. Alas the truth tends to be far from. The great hero a cowardly and
incompetitant fool, vixen a lanky and clumsy prude, or the stealthy thief is actually an eight foot
tall giant. Many suffer this delusion, but few remain in this state for extended periods.
Another way to retreat from the dreadful world is to return to a time when things were simpler.
Regressing to your “better times” makes things slightly difficult for your companions.
Especially if the skills you bring to the group you learned after the time you regress to. This
condition is very similar to the previous condition. It occurs frequently, but remaining long term
does not often occur.
When everything in your life starts to go wrong, sometimes you focus on the one thing that’s
going right. Or maybe the first thing that started your downward slope. Could just be a random
incident that happened last week, with that guy how could he do that to you! Reguardless of the
reason sometimes people become obsessed with things. Obsession is different from being
focused on something. Focusing on a task can be desirable and a benificial trait. When you’re
obsessed nothing distracts you. The world fades away until your one desire comes into crystal
clear focus. People are only resources to exploit to get you closer to your one desire.
Considering all the bad things that go around this delusion is one of the more prevaliant
derangements.
There is a natural ebb and flow of a person’s mood. Some days they’re very happy. Other days
they’re angry. Some individuals don’t have an ebb and flow, they have flash floods. These
people suffer from manic depression. Their moods swing from overly joyous to absolutely
depressed in a moments time. Then just to keep things interesting they’ll swing right back in
another instant. Little warning is given to the coming of a flood of emotion. This deviation is
fairly common.
The final psychosis to be discussed is the most tragic. Every once in a while the mind just can’t
take the trauma inflicted upon it. An event so powerful that no other means of protection are
available. The mind will reset to protect itself. In reseting the mind, memories are hidden away
deep down. When that happens the unfourtionate person finds that they have amnesia. Though
these cases are rare, recovery of the lost memories is the most rare of events.
Speaking of recovery, one must discuss the road to recovery from psychological trauma. As
stated earlier most of the standard methods of modern psychology are absent. So recovering
from your psychological troubles is typically a difficult prospect. But given enough support,
assistance, and time in general one can overcome their issues. That being said, you as the myth
maker should do everything in your power to make it a long, painful, next to impossible journey.
Always offer the easy way out to the player, but the cost of the easy way should be dire. The
things players gain are worth the effort they put forth to earn them. The more difficult a reward,
the greater it becomes.
The other side of the coin on that subject is the descent from normal and stable sanity into the
depths of madness. The descent usually begins with an event. A focal point where upon things
go from good to horrid. This point festers, writhes, and lurks in the character’s mind. They
begin to manipulate reality in minor ways to fit their delusions. Those devoloping paranoia
begin to suspect that people are watching them, obsession starts seeing the source of their
obsession more and more, or manic depressives start noticing annoyances right after moments of
great joy. Finally as the psychosis takes deeper and deeper roots, the game will eventually focus
entirely upon the character’s madness. Such an adventure should be cleared by all players before
undertaking though.

Work with players
This is probably going to be redundant if you have any experience dealing on friendly terms with
any human, but the following will be some advice when dealing with players. As it turns out
players are a good source of help with whatever you need. Not sure which direction to take the
plot? Indirectly or even just directly ask the players what they want for their characters. Having
trouble with running too many NPC’s at once? Let those players waste or scare them off.
A good place to begin at with your relationship with those pesky players would be the very
beginning. Don’t just drop the rule book with them and expect a character when you return.
Figure out what kind of player they want to play, the goals they have in the game, and that sort of
thing. It works best if all the players are together with you during this process. That way you
can get a good group dynamic going. Having the group all together will hopefully prevent one
player from rolling a well trained killing machine among a large group of negotiators. That poor
killing machine would sit and rust with all the non combat plot devolopment going on. Another
benefit is to stop the creation of terribly unbalanced characters from popping up.
Next up you can take some of that fantastic insight you have newly gained from the players and
either use it alone, or you can go further and chat with the players some more. Find out what
they would like to do with those shiney new characters. After acting like an information sponge
you can take that lovely knowledge and have it serve as points in your plot for the adventures.
Don’t craft an entire adventure catering to your player’s every whim, but do include them in
points here and there. You wouldn’t want to spoil them, now would you? While writing this
adventure make sure there is plenty of room to let the characters make decisions and solve
problems in their own interesting ways.
Moving forward in time you’ll eventually put this marvelous plot into action. During the events
of the plot you’ll get messed up. The players will do their best to completely derail your
carefully laid plans. You need to decide when you’ll allow it, and when fate needs to drag them
back on track. Either way you, as the myth maker, need to remember to reward their hard work.
If they complete an impossible task give them a due reward. Just pay attention to how much
rewards you pass out. If the characters start appearing more like demi-god kings, you should
probably cut back on the gift giving. On the other side of the rewards you’re dispensing would
be punishment. It may be hard to hear, but if characters insist on doing things that they shouldn’t
then you will have to do unpleasant things to them. The punishment should match the crime, and
typically death is held to the very last. Finding a good balance between punishing and rewarding
your players is something you will have to play by ear.

Misc advice
This is a lot of information to absorb. The following advice is the final wrap up. I promise.
Firstly you should take a little time to get a good handle on the general rules of Ad Emag. A
basic understanding of how the d10 system is used to perform attributes, percentage rolls for
skills, and so on. The best way I’ve found is to play the game, not run it. As a player you can
take the time needed to get an idea of how the pieces of the game fit together in a lower stress
enviromnent. Then when it’s your time to run a game you can use your awesome knowledge to
help the next player who has a shakey foundation. This being said, remember it’s a general
knowledge, not an encyclopediac recollection of the game. Instead of filling your head with that
just have an idea of where to find that information.
This book, nor any within the scope of any book, can cover every single situation. When one
does confront a situation where the rules are unavailable you will have to use some good ol’
creativity. Use your best estimate of what would be appropiate for the solution at hand. There
should be enough rules to form the basis of a good educated guess. On the off chance there is a
situation that i never even came close in guessing, roll some dice mumble, “hmm interesting”
then just make a decision yourself. Just do try to err on the side of the players. They are the
primary persons of interest.
The final advice i have for you is on the subject of crafting and helping run your adventures.
After all your work on the plot, characters, and memorizing the rules you start up the game.
Things go swimmingly. The players act fantastically and then you introduce the main villain of
entire wide sweeping campaign. The players see him, catch whiff of his purpose, then they all
unload all the ammo they can into him. There lies the broken body of your great adventure. To
prevent this mishap you can do a few pretty simple things. The first and most important is your
ability to fudge rolls. This is something you should only reserve for exceptional moments, as
players really don’t like it when you do that. So the next option you have is to take some time to
prepare back-ups. It’s like they say, “an ounce of prepeparation is worth a pound of cure.” Alas
some times those pesky players will do everything in their power to lay waste to your carefully
crafted ideas. The final option i can present to you follows. It’s an array of pre-rolled villains.
Given their roles, they’re called, “Cookie Cutter Villains”. Use them as a basis for your villains,
copy them directly for your use, or just neglect them. It makes no difference to me. But it’s an
option for you to consider.
That’s all the assistance i can offer to you. Remember that you have options, and all the cards.
When in doubt just make it up. NPC’s are your characters, but they’re not the center of the story.
That’s the players. Best of luck to you and i hope you enjoy.

Do-It-Yourself Character Creation
1. Who are you? Fill in your character’s basic information like what’s it’s name, sex, any
tattoos, ect. (See page bla)
2. What kind are you? Select if you would like to be a member of a stable genetic strain, and
which line you would like to be a part of, or if you are a randomly mutated character. Note your
mutations as well as any alterations from your mutations and your genetic line’s inherent bonuses
and penalities. (See page bla)
3. How good are you? Distribute your character’s attribute points to their attributes. (See
page bla)
4. Can you do math? Based on your character’s mutations, stable genetic strain, and
attributes calculate your character’s derived attributes. (See page bla)
5. Where are you from? Roll for your character’s starting location. Then roll to see how
much money your character begins with. Note that, it’ll be important soon enough. (See page
bla)
6. What are you good at? Assign your skills as the chart tells you based on what type of
region you grew up in. (See page bla)
7. What do you have? Now with all your character’s money, buy all the items you need/want.
It is suggested that you have one full set of clothing, a pair of shoes, and a bag of some sort to
hold everything at bare minimum. (See page bla)
8. Can you advance? Seeing how you have experience burning a hole in your character,
spend it as you see fit. Or you could even just save it for a rainy day. (See page bla)
9. Have you checked your work? Double check your character and see if anything is
missing, incorrect, or improperly filled in. (See whole book)
10. Enjoy. Congratulations, you now have a fully created character. If you feel so inspired,
doodle a picture of their mug, jot down a background and history, or just jump straight into a
game. Have fun.

Do-It-Yourself Combat
1. Who got here first? Determine the order of the characters’ and NPCs’ initiative. The
person (or sometimes group) that attacks always gets the first actions. Then go down the line in
order of highest initiative to lowest. Attackers do NOT get a free second action in one turn.
2. Are you just going to stand there? When it is your turn (players’ characters or mythmaker’s
NPCs) you can perform actions that you have enough actions to perform, save your
actions to act later on in the turn, or spend all of your actions to attempt to dodge any incoming
attacks.
3. Does it hurt? After the character/NPC performs their actions any applicable alternative
damage is applied. For example blood loss damage from a gunshot, that burning sensation from
being on fire, or pain and anguish from poisons.
4. Who else wants some? Continue with all characters and NPCs until everyone has used all
their actions or saved them into oblivion. Begin a new turn and everyone loses any saved actions
and any dodging characters keep dodging until it’s the beginning of their turn.
5. Do what? Pete and Repeat are sitting on a fence. Pete falls off. Who’s still on the fence?
Yes you go back to step 1 (yes you adjust the order of who goes first, last, and inbetween at the
beginning of every turn, to account for any adjustments that may befall your initiative) and go
through the whole process again. Keep doing this until those involved in combat resolve their
differences. Be it through hugs, silver tongues, unconscienceness, or death.

Do-It-Yourself Killing
1. Who and what? Determine who your target is and what kind of attack you are going to
use. Such as punching (unarmed), shoot them with a crossbow (archery), or break out the
chainsaw and go crazy on them (exotic melee weapons).
2. How hard can it be? After determining your character’s skill with that attack add and/or
subtract any modifiers for target’s size, speed, is it a Wednesday, your strength with the weapon,
the target’s dodge (if they’re dodging), ect.
3. How hard can it be? Roll a percentile. Above the total determined last step, you miss.
Roll double on that and you critically miss. Roll below the total and you hit. Doubles earn you a
critical hit.
6. Can you feel it? Roll the damage of your weapon.
7. Does it hurt? Distrubute the damage. Damage is taken from armor until it’s depleated,
then from the character’s skin armor value, then from the individual limb’s flesh.
8. Any long term effects? Any hits over 25 damage knock the character over. Every 10
points of flesh damage grants the sufferer 1 blood loss point.

Alternative Damages
Blood Loss-
10 Flesh damage = 1 Blood loss
1 Blood loss = -1 Body flesh per turn
Severed limbs = 10 Blood loss
Blood loss can be stopped with successful Basic Medicine or searingly hot object.
Blood loss heals 1 point per 5 turns
Fire-
75% Chance to catch fire
1d10 Damage every turn, ignoring armor
50% chance to put out fire by yourself, help adds +10% to your chance to put it out
Poison-
Disease Resistance is chance to resist poison also
Success means only one “attack” from poison and/or disease
Failure means one “attack” immediately and another chance to resist after a time specified by
poison
Radiation-
Damage depends on amount of exposure to radiation.
Small Dose- (depleted uranium wound, spending a lot of time with Rotter)
-1 per year from a random physical attribute.
Moderate Dose- (fallout from nuclear weapon, roaming in a uranium mine)
-1 per month from a random physical attribute.
Characters becomes very nauseous.
Large Dose- (playing near nuclear crater, wearing a flawed NBC suit in a radioactive
zone)
-1 per week from a random physical attribute.
Characters have great difficulty keeping any food or drink in them.
Character’s hair also begins to fall out.
Massive Dose- (playing in active nuclear reactor, handling uranium rods)
-1 per day from a random physical attribute.
Characters can do little other than vomit.
Hair falls out in great chunks until characters are bald.
Radiation burn lesions begin to develop.
Knock down-
25 Points of damage (including armor’s absorbation) knocks you down
3 Actions to get up
