**Stable Genetic Strains**

FIXME 
1st person intro
-edd intro
put mutation descriptions in descriptions
FIXME

The following chapter is an in-depth description of each of the stable genetic strains.  It should be noted that there other strains out and about.  There can also be variations within strains.  Finally thanks to the healing as well as mutating effects of the syrum, individuals within strains can have variances also.

*Amoebas*
Excerpts from, “Crime-berry Pie" by Router Howard.  “I was born into privilege. Our family was the biggest baddest family around for a hundred miles. We had our fingers in every delicious pie. We had the local law boys resting in our pocket. All the shops gave us our due cut. The nearby farmers always gave us their best.  The body politic served only as our mouthpiece. Even the local militia was bent to our will.  Money came in hand over fist and my every desire was satiated. Being the firstborn the legacy was all mine just as soon as Papa P FIXME kicked the bucket. Considering what I had to gain, is it a surprise that I had him whacked? When he fell, I rose. Taking the mantle in my hands…”
“Times were great then…”
“I should have suspected a power play was going on. Dino wanted to know just a little too much about what we did. Just how he managed to get Torque, my best and most trusted body guard, to turn against me, I have never learned. The offer Dino gave me was irresistible.  Give him the reigns of our family and leave in exile, or get whacked. I swore, if I ever got my hands on that double crossing…”
“It was next to impossible to scrape together enough coin to eat, much less find a place to stay. I squatted in abandoned apartments. The other residents would scream the most disturbing things through the night. 'My neighbor is an alien!', 'There’s a tooth in my tooth!', 'I am uncomfortably aware of my tongue!' were some of the more memorable rants that would keep me up all night. That’s where I found Septum. She was a gorgeous thing. Totally nutty, but good looking none the less. I lived in that hell hole for about a year eating scraps I would find around the neighborhood in desperation and starvation. But you’d be surprised what you can do when you have to…”
“Eventually Septum and I decided to form a little group to better ourselves. We had a stinking nerd named Buck Starr, a wretch of a man named Thogngh, and of course the real freak Septum. We had some great adventures…”
“There was this one job we got where we had to deliver a tupperware container across the wastelands. This guy who called himself, “The Overlord” wanted to have a secure message sent to some of his cronies. So his grand idea was to put it in some tupperware and tie it closed with some string. Well the curiosity eventually got to me and one night after everyone went to sleep I had to see what was inside. I couldn’t believe my eyes, that guy meant to…”
“After that great score of pre-Plague tech, we got split up. Thogngh fell into a pit of drugs pretty hard. He got mixed up with the wrong people and the pain just got to be too much for him. Septum opened up a general store. She sold only the weirdest crap, like broken bottles, lint, scraps of used paper, and bobble head people. Septum must have really lost her mind after seeing the depths of that military research lab all those years ago. Though all of us were pretty changed by that day. Buck caught a face full of axe after a particularly tricky game of cards. Of course it didn’t help that he had owed me quite a bit of money at that point and I may have suggested some cheating going on. As for yours truly, I found the love of my life. It was an ancient lounge chair hand crafted with perfectly aged fine leather. The recliner is so plush you just sink down when you sit.  I also managed to work a coup to reclaim what was taken from me by Torque and Dino. They’re heads now rest on either side of my throne. So it’s from my love that I decided to write these memoirs…”

Physical Description- First off, Amoebas are not fat. They’re chubby, portly, husky. But not fat. One unifying feature of most Amoebas is their weight. Worst of all, it’s not their fault. As a stable genetic line, they are all overweight. Another striking feature of the Amoebas is their skin.  It is a shiny and smooth skin. Their skin has the same texture as a plastic doll’s skin would be.  The final common physical trait among Amoebas would be their sluggishness. It’s not that they’re lazy, they are just resistant to doing any unnecessary physical activities.

Mental Description- The Amoeba’s mental faculties are sharpened to a razor’s keen. They are forever honing their ability to manipulate those nearest to them. Amoebas are very purpose driven and when they set their minds, not much can deter them from their goals. When situations require them to be they are loyal, friendly, and even outgoing. Yet normally they brood, sulk, and quite are lonesome. Amoebas have memories that stretch back quite far when remembering any offenses against them, yet their memories unexplainably become faulty when trying to remember any instance where they have offend anyone else. They also have quite a memory for those who do right by them and as such Amoebas will actually put forth effort to repay them. Even if it is only to prevent their friend from having any kind of leverage over them. Ultimately they seek to come out on top of any deal that they participate in.

Names- To select their names, the Amoebas reach far back to the pre-plague days for inspiration. Owing their strain’s forefathers they name their children after the great stars of the days before the plague. Unluckily the years haven’t been kind to the memories of days long since
passed. Such being, the names that they use tend to be distorted versions of the famous’ names. Some examples include, Mickey Moose, Jamie Deans, Paris Milton, and 95 Cents.

Home- The great life is a hard thing to forget. As a result the Amoebas can be found in the largest and oldest sprawling mansions left over from the pre-plague days. Some of these compounds are inhabited by the ancestors of those who lived there before the plague broke out.

Family Description- Amoeba families are usually large and include the entire extended family. The whole family is run by the eldest living person in the family. Be they man or woman.  These families lie, cheat, backstab, and vie for whatever favors and prestige they can get within their family. The ultimate punishment, short of death, is to be cast out of the family.

Religion- Amoebas believe mostly that there is a higher power above them. They just don’t care much more than that about it. It leaves them alone, so the Amoebas will do the same. Unless you count pre-plague celebrities and the Amoeba’s near fanatical worship of the celebrities.

Reasons for Adventuring- Amoebas only leave the house when it is absolutely necessary. They much rather the seclusion and protection of their families and send out their underlings to the world. Those Amoebas that are found out of their families’ compound are usually trying to expand the controlled assets of the family itself. Those who aren’t out for kinder reasons are out in the real world because they’ve been exiled from their families.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Why do all the hard work yourself when you can just as easily hire someone to do it for you. That’s the opinion of Amoebas. They would always rather have another person do the “dirty” work for them. So their preferred arms and armor are anything that their lackeys can use well enough.

Usual Occupation- Amoebas will take any work that gives them a margin of power over others. It must have little to no physical labor involved either.

Strain History- Nearly every Amoeba can trace their family’s history back to the days before the plague. That long line connects directly to a celebrity of that time. Be they a famous political figure, movie star, artist, or just a spoiled child of the famous, they all turned into Amoebas when the syrum was taken. The syrum’s perverting effects worked to undo all the hard work they put forth into their bodies. With the pain and horror they faced after the Syrum warped their bodies into bloated, glossy, hulking creatures, the Amoebas all retreated behind closed doors and put their vast resources to work building a base of power for themselves. As the madness spread and the governments crumbled around them, they began calling in favors, making bribes, and performing their power plays. As such Amoebas have secured a place where they have little to fear from any who are hopeful to overthrow them from their little kingdoms.

Mutations- 
(34) Allergies 
(35) plastic skin 
(36) silicone flesh 
(77) overactive stomach acid production 
(92) lethargic

*Boars*
“Anarchist’s Declaration” by Flack Sloan
I was raised in the crammed livestock pens. Forced to eat the processed remains of my brothers and sisters. I have watched my closest friends become your dinner. That is why I must be a revolutionary.
You may be asking yourself, “Why should i listen to this braggart?” Firstly I have led hundreds of men and women in countless battles to overthrow a host of oppressive monsters. I am also the originator of the famous “Flack Maneuver.” If that doesn’t sell you then keep this in mind. In a world where the slightest error leads to your death, where everybody waits patiently for the slightest hint of weakness, where living and thinking earn you a price on your head, I have survived for 47 years.  I must fight with my last dying breath to prevent even one person from knowing the horrors I have known. The enemy are the cruel overlords who oppress anyone for their own gains. The man who forces others to till his land for little to no compensation. The woman who weaves a net of deception and lies to enslave with “credit” and “currency”. Even the those who uses raw violence to force labor.  Curious what you can do now that your heart is enflamed? Well follow these easy steps and before long you’ll be a celebrated hero of the downtrodden.
1. Seek a local revolutionary cell. They are well hidden from most normal people thanks to the price on most of their heads. Be prepared to let them find you, and not the other way around.
2. Once you become a member of the hidden cell take any advantage you can of all the training your fellow revolutionaries may offer. You can never have too much training.
3. As you and your fellow freedom fighters become more efficient at your trained regiments, then begin to secure supplies you will need. By any means you have available secure your supplies, including lying, cheating, stealing, and if absolutely necessary, murder. You should acquire as much of the following as you can,
  • Sturdy melee weapons (axes, clubs, or well made knives)
  • Personal protection (heavy padded clothing, bullet proof cloth, shaped metal plates)
  • Food and water (enough for a month of isolation for every member you have)
  • Any working communications equipment (CB radios, television broadcasting, printing presses)
  • Alternative locations for retreat under the worst circumstances
4. Continue to train even more. Remember, you can never train too much, right?
5. Refine your techniques with others. Distribute your talented people around to other cells. Never keep all your most skilled personal at one location together.
With all those preparations accomplished you should be ready to start sticking it to The oppressor. While you’re putting The oppressor in his place, don’t forget to free your fellow captive brethren. In fact while those fellow now freed buddies are hanging around, try to get them to
join the cause. Have them fill your depleted ranks or even start new cells themselves.  
Remember though we may be broken, killed, tortured, or slaughtered, the spirit of revolution can never be destroyed. With your hard work we are one step closer to freeing the world from the clutches of the oppressor.

Physical Description- The boars are vertically challenged. Luckily good things come in small packages. Their stature is short yet stocky. Their skin is a bit on the rough side and to further enhance this they have short and stiff bristles covering their skin. Their faces pull out to a snout of sorts complete with a pair of small tusks. Boars also have a cute little curly tail on their backsides. Just never tell them it’s cute, you’ll regret it. The final physical feature that the Boars are identified by would be the near constant rumbling in their bellies. Freedom or food are the only things that quiet the grumblings.  In both cases quanity and not quality are important.

Mental Description- Boars are always seeking the underdog, the downtrodden, the long shot.  When they find a person fitting one of these descriptions they imeadiately throw everything they have to help them out. Until the Boar believes that the downtrodden underdog has come on top.  Then they will switch sides without second though. Care is always to be taken when dealing with the Boars though. For they are very quick to anger. The knowledge that they have a price on their heads, they savor it all, and fight for change. They live hard, fight harder, and die fast. Luckily for most the Boars are moved to joy even quicker. Yet when things become difficult Boars are always the first to raise arms and join the fight.

Names- Typical Boars abandon their “given” name, which is typically a serial number of one sort or another. Rarely some will keep the number as their name to always remember the reason they started fighting in the first place. Boars that take a second name and renounce their given
name choose half remembered bits of military jargon and termonology. Some colorful examples of Boar names are, BR70383, P1178, 362436SWF, Snafu, Fubar, Rug Bomb, and Ella Pincer.

Home- Being constantly on the run, Boars do their best not to become particularly attached to any place they call home. None know when they’ll have to make a last moment dash, never to return. As such the Boars all look for hidden places to call their own. Abandoned underground train lines, neglected apartment complexes, flop houses, underground hide-outs all make excellent canidates for Boars to live in. The more desolate, secluded, and disused looking, the better for them. The less people want to go explore the Boar’s home turf, the longer it remains hidden.

Family Description- In the stock fields the Boars are kept together with no particular attention to family groups. Without time or ability to form and cement family bonds, escaped Boars do the best that they can to form their own families. They consider their friends to be the only family they have and need. They also view personal relationships to be shared with everyone equally.

Religion- Boars have very busy lives filled with preperation for the next valliant fight, scouting of new locations to run to, and gathering people to their cause. As such the Boars do not heed any religion in particular. They would much rather spend what little free time they have enjoying the fruits of their lives rather than being tied down by a religious ideal and ritual.

Reasons for Adventuring- The only option for a Boar to stay alive is to fight. Fight against the person who condemned countless Boars to slavery and death. Fight against others that would put others down. Fight against anyone who doesn’t agree with their ideals. That being the case, Boars quickly learn that they can not have much impact alone. To find others with similar ideas and morals to join them in the fight is a great boon. Thus most Boars seek to find groups of people to adventure with so they can have the best possible chance of making a difference.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Boars draw a lot of their strength from the militaries and freedom fighters of the pre-plague days. Their preferred arms and armor are easily any preplague military hardware they can get their hands on.

Usual Occupation- Boars usual occupation, surprisingly enough, is as freedom fighters. They are revolutionaries at heart. Anywhere the oppressor puts someone down, you can bet that there’s a group of Boars waiting and biding their time to strike and destroy the opprssor and his incidious macinations.

Strain History- In the years before the Plague ravaged the planet’s population, people ate pork. It wasn’t a particularly popular meat, but some liked it well enough. The problem arose when the Syrum was administered after the consumption of pork. The eaters of pork awoke the
next day to find themselves transformed into hybrids of pork and man. Unluckily for the Boars all of the conflicts that arose from the destabilization of governments led to mass warfare. In the process of the conflicts the livestock populations were decimated, and the greedy meat loving people turned their eyes to the next best thing. Hence began the enslavement and conversion to a stable food source for the rest of the world. Nobody liking their dinner to ask questions about the ethics of being eaten, the farmers selectively choose to breed the intelligence out of the Boars. For the most part the farmers are successful, but every once in a while a Boar is born with enough intelligence to notice that their station in life isn’t a fair one. So they fight to escape.  Then fight to live. Being a farmer’s source of money, any Boars found outside of the pastures where they feed typically have a bounty on their live return. This bounty varies from farm to farm, depending on the amount that the farmers actually have available to pay.

Mutations- 
(15) Snout 
(16) curly tail 
(39) pigskin 
(52) dwarfism 
(55) overactive digestion.

*‘Bot*
Resume of B. P. Hammer
Employer- Earl Lewis Smithington XXVI
Terms of Contract- Short term protection.
Details of Job- Fairly decent client, once you got past the nickel and dime-ing. Lived in one of those communes, you know the kind that those immune live on? Anyway Earl wanted me to cover him while he picked up some supplies at the next town. Seemed simple enough, go in, make busy, split. As it turns out the townspeople didn’t look so kindly to them. After I cracked a few skulls they left well enough alone. The shop keeper initially wanted to refuse Earl, but some comments about where I’d leave my axe changed his mind. On the way back with a rucksack full of basics (seeds, bolts, flint, etc) a posse of rednecks from town thought they would ambush us. Suffered some minor injuries, left them much worse off.
Fee- Mr. Smithington paid me with preserved food stuffs (some pretty delicious jams and jerky) and a free patching up by the town doc.

Employer- Molly Nbdenum
Terms of Contract- Long term protection.
Details of Job- Wanted me to guard her while she worked. Snooze-o-rama at first until she started trying to sleep with me. She didn’t take rejection too well and tried to drug then experiment on me. Luckily for me she messed up something with the drug. Subdued her then ran.
Fee- Took some compensation from her lab, then bugged out.

Employer- D.L. Tion
Terms of Contract- Short term assault.
Details of Job- Approached by a member of the group, “Freedom Uninhibited Coalition of Kindred Spirits.” Cute gal by the name of Demo offered me an irresistible smash and grab. We were to hit Sassafras Farms. Kill any resistance, which was estimated to be under trained and geared slavers. Then snatch any “livestock” that was well enough and smart enough to come
with. Things started pretty standard with an unusual surprise making it a cake walk. Then before I knew it, the job was done. Pretty freaking easy.
Fee- All the loot i wanted off my kills as well as marvelous 12 gauge shotgun.

Skills- Good with big bashers, you know axes, maces, even the rare sword or two. I know my way around most long arm rifles. Decient enough at tracking. I have a fair knowledge of electronics use, matience, and repair. I am also very good at hand to hand fighting.
Education- Three tours of duty with the North Salem Defense Force. After that learned from the School of Hard Knocks. Been selling my skills for 6 years to anyone who made it worth while to me.

Physical Description- ‘Bots get their title from a shorthand for the word robot. Most who have little to no actual contact with ‘bots believe that they are robots instead of people. Truth is that the ‘bots are in fact people with a very singular features. The first feature that gives the
robotic impression is their metal skin. Their skin is a cold reflective metal. The second “robotic” feature is the mechanical limb. Every ‘bot has one limb that is a collection of springs, wires, sheet metal instead of flesh and blood. Which limb is a trait that is passed on, like all mutations, from the mother of the ‘bot to the child. Over all the ‘bots are tough cookies and they look and act the part.

Mental Description- Due to the typical ‘bot’s job being a gun for hire, they think tactilly. Always planning for escape strategies, terrain layouts, strategic points, and field value are things that usually weigh in the back of their minds. On the rare chance that a ‘bot is allowed to let his mind relax and wander, they are usually tight lipped about where it goes.

Names- Thanks totally to the assumption that they are robots, most ‘bots are named after old tools and mechanical devices. Some classic names are; S. Wrench, Allen Key, Sir C. Frence.

Home- When a ‘bot looks for a new home to make their own. The first step they do is find a very defensable location. Buildings with a good view of the lands around. Then the building itself should be made of strong and durable materials. Finally when they select the perfect home, they make it their own by further increasing the defenses of the house with any materials they can find.

Family Description- When a ‘bot is on the job they don’t usually have the time or spare brain power to play the field to find affection. Off the job they rather enjoy the persuit of intimate attention. But once again because of their dedication to their jobs, any ‘bot relationships are
usually short lived. Though they never seem to complain about it.

Religion- In an unexpected contradiction to their hedonistic relationships ‘Bots have strong religious beliefs. The religions that the 'bots pick is uaually a personal choice that could be any of the religions practiced

Reasons for Adventuring- Finely honed combat skills, a family legacy of combat duty, and natural armor, it would be a shame if ‘bots didn’t adventure. They do it because it’s what they’re good at and it gives them a rush that they can’t find anywhere else. Though the cold cash and
gear doesn’t hurt either.

Preferred Arms and Armor- ‘Bots like their gear to be just like they are. Big, flashy, and well maintained.

Usual Occupation- If they do what they do best, ‘bots will do something in the line of fire.  Their usual jobs are hired mercernaries, bodyguards, soldiers, and hit-men.

Strain History- Long ago in the days before the plague, there were those who were handicapped. The world did its best to give these people any assistance to help. The one method involved using artificial materials to re-create missing limbs. When the syrum came into contact with the handicapped, it not only cured their handicap, but it served to strengthen them more than those around them. As the government scrumbled and dictators worked to fill the gap, ‘bots found and secured their place as muscle.

Mutations- 
(22) Metallic bones 
(26) leaden skin 
(51) natural battery 
(76) mechanical limb
(85) receives radio waves

*Brains*
The Effects of Pre-Plague Media on Isolated Peoples
In this essay I propose to demonstrate the effects on isolated towns who have access to pre-plague fictional literature, dramatized video media, and graphic dominated mini-books. The towns I studied had a historical use of fictional materials being studied as non fictional materials. I shall call upon and mostly rely on my first hand personal experience to write this essay and support my hypothesis.
My beginning observations began in a small post-plague town of Ashland. It’s population numbers extremely low at around 500. The majority of the town has retreated to the safety of a strip mall that was built long before the plague. The town, many years before any can remember, moved their government to a bookstore. As the years passed the town leaders and the novels they used to make their decisions became more and more mystical. The system of government went from a bureaucratic mess of red tape to a council of elders that made all the decisions for the good of the town. The elder council, which called itself The Council of Nine, was composed of nine elder members of the tiny town. For the most part The Council of Nine were content to pass rulings between small personal disputes that occurred in the town. To sustain itself the town traded various reserves it possessed from the substantial inventories of the stores they lived in. Unfortunately all the extremely valuable goods that this small town would produce regularly to barter for food with attracted the wrong kind of attention. A couple of raider attacks and the town had lost all of it’s technical manuals and nonfiction worth taking as well as the bulk of the expensive luxury goods they had in large amounts. The townspeople of Ashland had to come to grips with a terrifying prospect. Learning to produce their own goods from scratch once more.  
As fate would have it, signs and organization that separated the fiction from non faded.  Eventually the town’s elders began to trust the fictional word as truth. Eventually through much trial and error the town rediscovered the age old secret of agriculture.
This in itself isn’t remarkable. The remarkable part is their singular decision to interpret the pulp sci-fi books and comics as instructional manuals in the ways of combat. They are the progenitors of the philosophy of The Book. The Book teaches that the First Way is to attempt to create a combat form in the heat of battle.  Adherants spend years struggling in fights and universally fail to discover what they need to on their own.
 The Second Way is to observe how the great heroes from ages past fight, based on the recounts in their our revered library.
Though the idea may seem laughable in a laboratory, time and time again it’s been proven that the methods are exceptionally effective. Speaking from personal experience (I am a 10th level Barbarian and have made great use of the forms) the techniques are difficult and clumsy in the beginning. But after the first year everything seems to fall into place. Amazingly enough these people managed to create a useful martial art from fictional sources.
Now another interesting parallel is the entertainment hub of Silicon. The Scions of Rewind model their combat form after pre-plague action movies. They are divided on the subject of the source of the most useful teachings. The followers of Enter the Fist believe that the best teachings can only be gained from the far eastern movies. Their polar opposite believe that the best forms of defense are garnered from right here in the great west. They call themselves the followers of Shwartz-A-Fisty. It’s amazing to see two separate cultures both adopt amazingly
similar misinterpretations of ancient pre-plague media and apply it in a real world setting.
Furthermore...

Physical Description- Brains don’t look too different from what normal humans once looked like. Their skin color varies depending on their ethenicity. Their hair color varies pretty normally from nearly white to jet black. A Brain’s weight also covers the range from rail thin to portly and overweight. The one difference about Brains would be their heads. Their heads are overly large and swollen looking. Furthermore to contain all the smarts of a brain, their brains swell up. Their skulls and skin can’t keep up and gives up trying about half way through a brain’s development leaving cracks and large sections of their brains exposed to the world around them.

Mental Description- Thanks to that gigantic noggin of theirs, brains are all quite intelligent.  They all have a common thirst for knowledge and a unlimited mental potential. Though this brilliance does come at a price. When they find a subject that catches their fancy, brains will be driven to understand it.  They focus to the point of forgetting the little things. Little things like personal hygean, prior appointments, upcoming events, impending danger, sleeping, even maintaining their bodies.

Names- With such an investment in the scientific fields, most brains even donate their names to science. The usual names are derived from scientific terms and theories. Some popular names include, Co Sine, Resonance, Myocardial Infarction, Ethan Ology, Kelvin

Home- Brains are the most picky of the strains about the place that they call home. They require locations that have advanced facilities that can help them progress their own personal knowledge. This location also serves for their house. Also a need is present to prevent outside influence on experiments, brains like places that are clean and can be kept clean. No wrecked buildings need apply. Another favorite option is a constant flow of electricity to the building. Alas beggars can’t be choosers, so brains rarely get all that they want without sacrificing something for it.

Family Description- Because of their scientific history, brains have a very unique view of families. They see the family as a means to create a better future generation. As such a brain will select a partner that they believe will produce the best results when combined with their own.  After conception, the brain and their partner will remain with the child and attempt to pass on all the knowledge that they possess. When both partners have instructed their child in all that they can, the child is allowed to go into the world and increase their knowledge.

Religion- Science doesn’t typically play well with religion. They both try to cancel one another out. Brains are scientists, one and all. As such most brains do not worship any particular religion heavily. The brains that do have faith in a higher power put their faith into whatever religion they believe is the most logical.

Reason for Adventuring- When a Brain becomes full of the knowledge of their parents, it is expected of them to go out into the world. This leaving of the nest is for two reasons. The first is to recover knowledge lost during the plague and the disasterous events afterward. The second
reason is to collect field data, formulate theories, and put their theories to the test to advance the post plague world.

Preferred Arms and Armor- If a brain is forced to cary a weapon and wear armor then they will have what is considered technologicaly cutting edge items. These prototypes they usually make themselves or they get the prototype from a close friend or family member. These weapons and armor either fail miserably or they perform far beyond anyone’s estimate.

Usual Occupation- If it wasn’t obvous until now, Brains are typically in a field of research.  They prefer to work on the side of theory and leave production and field testing to others if possible. Unluckily they must take matters into their own hands all too often when it comes to their prototype devices.

Strain History- As the world panicked over the plague wreaking havoc on everything, the scientists of the world kept their cool heads. They went through the paces and did their best to find a cure to the plague. A startling thing began to creep through the scientific community. The
usual suspects for disease eradication, much less control were having no effect.  Conventional ideas started running out as the plague hungerly devoured human life. Then the unconventional ideas ran out. As the ideas started running out, scientists began turning to experiments that were much less ethical. Injecting bleach into convicts veins, genetic engineering of humans, prolonged induced fevers, and dozens of other terrible methods were employed to try and hault the progress of the plague. None had any effect. Then an unknown lab manned by unknown scientists came out with the panacea-like cure to the plague, nicknamed “The Syrum”. The first prototype syrum was greedly horded by the scientists themselves and in due time the result was the first large hatred of a stable genetic strain. The scientists all transformed into what later was called the brains. As the rest of the world became mutated freaks also, the initial hatred of the brains cooled to a jovial dislike. While the opinion of the brains was changing, the brains secured their place just as they had in their previous lives as the scientists and researchers of the world.

Mutations- 
(13) Uncovered brain 
(28) abnormally large head 
(56) inherited memories
(79) absent minded 
(92) lethargic

*Dryads*
One one-thousand. 
Two one-thousand. 
Three one-thousand. 
Four one-thousand. 
Five one-thousand. 
Six one-thousand. 
Seven one-thousand.
It seemed that the events had a gravity of their own. The most terrible of things always seem to start as the simplest and easiest of situations. But these are the musings of an old man, and I should-
One one-thousand. 
Two one-thousand. 
Three one-thousand. 
Four one-thousand. 
Five one-thousand. 
Six one-thousand.
-stick to facts. 
Sounds like it’s getting closer. 
When I was young my father told me that when I saw lightning to count, then when the thunder crashed, that was how far away the storm was.
One one-thousand. 
Two one-thousand. 
Three one-thousand. 
Four one-thousand. 
Five one-thousand.
Sounds like it's getting closer.
I should have read the signs. Subtle as they were, I am trained to read them. This wasn’t my first negotiation by far. And now the burden will rest on my shoulders for the rest of my days. Its all coming down around my head. The whole thing began as many of these do, over land. It’s not
like there isn’t enough of it to go around these days. The participants first pretended to “have everyone’s best interests in mind”. Bull-
One one-thousand. 
Two one-thousand. 
Three one-thousand. 
Four one-thousand. 
Five one-thousand.
The discussions seemed to go remarkably well at first. That should have been a warning. Instead the first warning I noticed was a provision that worked me out of the negotiations. Me! The negotiator, banned from the negotiations!
One one-thousand. 
Two one-thousand. 
Three one-thousand.
After that, it only got worse. The Einhorn Sindicate first cut me out of the negotiations. Then they made the negotiations a “private afair” and cut out the public. The last straw was when they actually worked the other party, The Red Shirts, right out of the deal. I have never been so blind sided during a negotiation. It’s starting to look like this old man won’t get another chance
to make the same-
One one-thousand. 
Two one-thousand.
-mistake. 
The shelling is getting closer. 
The Red Shirts were clear when they said that they would
not stand for this travesty. Who could know that they had a full artillary battery. Or that they would use it to shell the city to rubble if they couldnt get it.
It’s ironic. I’m an old broken man, in an ancient breaking city.
One one thousand. Two--

Physical Description- Dryads really stand out in a crowd. The first and most striking feature is their skin. The skin of a Dryad has more in common with a tree’s bark than it does with regular human skin. It has the same rough texture, brown color, and about the same thickness as bark. Another special Dryad characteristic is their “hair”. Instead of being soft and silky, a Dryad’s hair is made of small twigs, leaves, and in some cases even flowers. Dryads stand out in crows in less metaphorical ways thanks to their extreme tallness. They have a normal range of weight, but their heights are a full head and shoulders taller than others around them. The final major unique Dryad feature is their ability to go for long periods without eating any food. Their hair can absorb sunlight and their feet draw nutrients from the soil. The draw-back of surviving this way is the Dryad must keep their movements down to a minimum to reduce the amount of energy needed to live. When Dryads survive like this for any amount of time, they are very easy to mistake for actual trees. A final feature that few know about is the Dryad’s sight. They perceve the world in a different way than everyone else. How exactly nobody knows.

Mental Description- Given their slow plodding nature as well as ability to survive without any outside input, Dryads are typically a bit withdrawn. When you do draw a Dryad out of their shell they are friendly, intelligent, and full of insight only gained from observing people for a long time.  They are also known for having a mind for details and figures. Though their minds bend closer to the areas of law and linguistics rather than the sciences.

Names- Being so alike to plants, Dryads steal their names from plants naturally. The more rural they are the more well known common names. The more sophisticated city dwellers prefer to have more fancy latin or greek names. Some examples are, the rural Sunflower or the city Helianthus Annuus, the rural Linseed or the city Linaceae, the rural Birch or the city Betula, the rural Olive or the city Olea Europaea.

Home- In an unlikely twist the withdrawn Dryads prefer to make their homes deep in the center of the towns that they live in. This is owning to their typical job being so closely associated with the town’s governments. Their actual homes are crafted from natural materials found close by. In the parks of their neighborhoods rest the tired forms of the Dryads who need some time away from the rigors of life.

Family Description- Dryads’ families are unique. Not in the structure, which is a normal nuclear family, but in the living situation of the Dryads. They live together about half the time and the other half of the family member’s time is spent in deep thought in the neighborhood park soaking up some sunshine.

Religion- Dryads do not practice a solid institutional religion. They all have a very personal beliefs in nature itself. The Dryads follow a varying level of pagan worship of nature. The level of ritual varies person to person. From a simple abstracted belief that don’t have any real impact on their day to day activities to a full on rituals that are practiced on very specific dates and times to pay homage to a myrid of gods and goddesses.

Reasons for Adventuring- Thanks to their stable and ponderous nature Dryads very quickly find jobs in governmental and negotiatory posts. As such to find a Dryad adventuring is an unusual occurance. From time to time Dryads will take matters into their own hands and form an investigatory body for a town if one is lacking. Being investigators they are required to journey out to look into leads and track suspects down.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Dryads are always getting in trouble for their preferred armor.  They really enjoy being all natural, AKA nude. Though those who experience with combat quickly change their opinion of going “all natural”. When selecting materials to protect themselves they gravitate twards natural materials such as wood, leather, or bamboo. For arms the Dryads also go natural. Poisons delivered by any means they can come up with is the standard means for those dastardly trees.

Usual Occupation- With respect to their longevity and their penchant for law Dryads find themselves stuck in local governments. They serve as the arbitrators, judges, and investigators.  They can be generally found doing anything where an impartial third party is required. This can be frustrating at times, so frustrated Dryads can be found performing other similar jobs. Such as bounty hunters and organized crime lawyers.

Strain History- There was a movement that existed before the Plague that called it’s members Vegans. They believed that injuring animals was morally wrong. As such they did not consume or use any products that were made from or injured animals. When the Vegans were lucky enough to get the Syrum, the only thing in the Dryad’s system were products made from plants.  The warping effects of the Syrum turned the Dryads into the one thing they could consume, plants. As the times of anarchy raged around them, the Dryads did their best to stay out of the conflict and some notable personalities even fought for peace. Unluckily they didn’t succeed for some time. As the battles died down and the dust began to settle the Dryads were considered the closest thing to an impartial third party in nearly every dispute that arises.

Mutations- 
(6) Elongated limbs 
(20) leaves and bark 
(42) poisonous blood
(59) altered perception 
(61) photosynthesis

*Freaks*
So you dweebs need some help getting sweet diggs of your own, huh? Well listen up, ‘cus i’m only gonna tell you all you need to get a great pad and make it your own. So pay attention, ‘cus i’m only writing this once.
1. Scout out your diggs. DO NOT run in and grab whatever you feel like. Pick a place that will fit your needs. (eg, a good place to hide, a good place to defend, or whatever) Once you find a building that fits your needs get comfortable somewhere hidden and watch your new home for at least a day or two. You’re watching for any people or wildlife who had the idea to snatch the place before you did. Last thing you want is a family of Croakers surprising you one night, right?
Tricky Tip: To help pass the time why not try my favorite game, God Save the Queen? It’s pretty easy and all you need is a bit of string, an apple (or any fruit really), and a statue of Buddah. Nothing helps you pass the time quietly and quickly like a good ol’ game of GSQ.
2. Once you’re pretty sure that you’ll be the only cat staying there, check the place for any signs for anyone else. If you find any fresh signs get out of there and watch the place for longer. If you see someone or something go in or out of the place you might want to think about finding yourself another pad. When you’re as sure as you can be that it’s empty and will stay that way get to work cleaning your pad up. Choose a room or place that is out of sight of the outside for your own space. Wouldn’t want anyone peeking in on you without knowing, right? So get rid of all the crap you don’t want in your new home.
Tricky Tip: Leave any rooms you can see from the outside dirty, heck go for broke and wreck them even more. The worst the rooms look, the less likely people will take the time to investigate your diggs.
3. With your pad all squared away grab any supplies you’ll need to make it comfortable.  Definately grab the usual suspects, cans of food, candles, your personal water snatcher, whatever else. Just don’t forget some less common gear. Such as tool kits, radios, your personal library,
pets, or some spare clothing.
Tricky Tip: Instead of laughing at those old art supplies you always find, try taking them back to your diggs. You’d be surprised how much you’ll like a place when it’s all prettified just the way
you want to.
4. With all your fancy shinies taking up space in your new diggs, it might do you to beef up your place’s protection. These largely depend on your building itself, your own personal requirements, and what kind of crap you have available to do it. You really want to fight the urge to make a bunch of lethal traps though. It would be a real shame if your new main squeeze wanted to surprise you and instead got all corpse-a-fied, wouldn’t it?
Tricky Tip: If you have stairs in your pad, put an extra board or whatever on just one step. Most everyone will trip on that step and make a racket. You get an announcement whenever someone comes and those that enter your diggs get a painful mistake. And all without that mess a dead body makes!
Well i think that i’ve given you quite enough info to get comfortably dug in. So quit reading this and get to work on getting a pad of your own!
Until next time peeps,
Anti-Tragus

Physical Description- Freaks are the most colorful of the stable genetic strains. Each family has a certain “theme” that is passed from mother to child. These family themes focus on a particular idea or concept and repeat this over the entire body in what looks like a full body tattoo. These themes range from numbers, like lucky seven, to concepts such as penitance for past offences. Another often overlooked feature of the freaks are their hands and the extra finger they posses. In an interesting twist the freaks all share a nervous condition. When they are excited, nervous, or angry their skin secretes a thick, brownish, waxy mucus. This mucus dries very quickly when it secretes out and when it does dry it becomes tough enough to serve as protection from small attacks.

Mental Description- Instead of being manipulative, brooding, aggressive, or fierce freaks are oddly laid back. freaks like to take things as they come and make due with what they have. Eternal optimists and mercably protected from the predijustices most other strains suffer from has
allowed them to not be as high strung as some other strains.

Names- The freaks all hail from the freaks of the pre-plague world. As such they have a great collection of artists. These artists sometimes used traditional media such as paint, sculpture, and written word. The families that come from traditional artists use traditional art supplies,
methods, and theories for names. Notable examples include; Prussian Blue, Perspecitive, and Fractal. Those freaks that come from the ancient freaks who used their own skins as media for expression get their names from tattooing and body piercing lingo. These notable examples include; Otto Clave, Prince Albert, Five Needle.

Home- Edgy and extreme locations are where you typically find freaks. Crumbling apartment complexes, shopping malls, and restraunts. They are inexorably pulled to buildings that existed before the plague. The older the better. Once they have their dwelling secured they go to great lengths to “decorate” them. Decoration includes smashing windows, spray painting obcenities, and furniture made from empty beer cans in addition to more traditional methods of decoration.

Family Description- The freaks have families as varied their inky skin. They run the gambit from huge extended families of friends, to very close partners, and even a lone soul. You can usually find freaks in the middle ground though, living in nuclear families of two parents and their kids
living together until the kids are old enough to move out with spouses of their own.

Religion- Figuring out the freak’s typical religion is nearly as difficult as finding the Freak’s typical family structure. You can find freaks practicing any religion available to worship. From Born Again Satanist fanatics to non-worshiping nihilists. Though there are members of the fringe religions, most freaks are agnostics who generally believe in something above them, but they don’t know what it is and not knowing doesn’t bother them.

Reasons for Adventuring- Freaks adventure for the same reason that young people typically leave the nest. They long to see the world and experience excitement before they go to settle down with that “special someone.” As such they tend to adventure out in the world and have a good time for a few years, then they return home and settle down with their spoils.

Weapons & Armor- Being eternal optimists the freaks usually just work with what is available to them. So they’ll work with materials on hand to create their weapons and armor. If the funds and supplies are available the freaks prefer to have shiney guns and “bullet proof ” clothing. They understand that it isn’t always (or even often) possible to get such wonderful toys. So they work with scrap metal, shanks, slings, and zip guns.

Usual Occupation- When out and adventuring Freaks try to work with their artistic strengths, thanks to not being particularly fantastic at any military skills. But they make up for this by providing creative input and other secondary skills. When they finally finish sowing their wild oats, freaks settle into occupations with artistic aims, such as traditional artists or body artists.

Strain History- In the days right before the plague, a social group became dissatisfied with humanity. They realized that we all have the same two arms, the same two legs, even the same two eyes. So they did all that they could to to change what they had. They altered their skin with
tattoos, their faces with metal piercings, some even went as far as amputating small parts of their bodies for the aestetic of it. These freaks, as they were called back then, took the syrum and it took their body modification to a whole new level. Their tattoos spread to their whole bodies. As the world lamented their corrupted fate, the freaks rejoiced. They had exactly what they wanted. As the world mutated, warred, and became turned upside down the freaks settled into a nice soothing habit. As such they remained the only source of normalcy while everything else went to pieces.

Mutations- 
(37) Tinted skin 
(43) hardened secretions 
(44) breath smoke 
(50) extra fingers
(70) hemophiliac.

*Immune*
The Grizwald Family Recounter
Well howdy Everybody! It’s me, good ol’ Aunt Ruth. Just writing this out to bring all the family back up to date on all the craziness that’s been happening. Let me begin by wishing everyone a very happy month of November. It’s been a long year so far, but the year is going to pick up speed and before you know it, there’ll be another year behind you. We also have a few birthdays to celebrate this month. I’m sure everyone will join me in wishing the following a very special day, Erik Virgil Grizwald IX a happy 26th, Lucy Andorra Stanley-Grizwald VI who looks younger every year, and finally little Herbert Bennett Grizwald II has his very happy 4th birthday.
So enough of my birthday ramblings, let’s get to the rest!
Let’s see, first thing’s first, Gregory Randolph Grizwald XVIII is looking for a hand again. It seems he’s found yet another “treasure” map. Anyone interested should go talk to him.  Just go to his shack off the compound and I'm sure he’ll tell you all about it. Just be warned that most think that he’s a few bottles short of a six pack. He means well and is a good man, but he has a weakness for old maps and conspiracy theories. 
Next there’s Clemens Mortimer Grizwald IX who just opened a new general store. He’s got a great selection of a little bit of everything, including a great selection of live bait. So stop on by you can’t miss it. The shop, Frogger’s Goods, is just off the main road near the side gate.
Nancy Erin Parker-Grizwald III and Harvey Valentine Grizwald XXXVII are
celebrating the birth of their sweet daughter, Katharine Alexander Grizwald XIX. She was born a healthy and happy 6 lb. 13 oz. She’s as cute as can be, and we’re all looking forward to welcoming her into our little community. Anyone who has any infant clothes that their little tykes aren’t using are asked to donate them on over to Nancy and Harvey for little Katharine.
Speaking of our little community of Grizwaldenburg here’s some of the more interesting events. A coulpa nasty ol’ marauders came through here and wanted to shoot everyone and everything up. Luckily the Grizwaldenburg’s Regulars were quick to move in and keep them as far away from everyone as possible. Still mayor Gracie Gilmore Grizwald Jr. did as she always does and bought them off with money from our treasury.
Another thing of note is that the city council has passed a new resolution. Resolution #378941 is to begin construction of a wall around our fair town. Those who supported the resolution say that the wall would keep nearly all possible marauders at bay. It would also invigorate our little town’s economy. Those that opposed the resolution, myself included, claim that the wall will be ugly, overly expensive, and force more and more aggressive marauders to test their mettle on our fair town. But either way, it’s coming, so anyone interested in working on this project should visit the city council’s offices.
And with that, that’s all that has happened to our happy little community since last little newsletter.
Hugs & Kisses
Aunt Ruth

Physical Description- Immune are just as the “normal” people would be if they didn’t ever take the syrum. Because well, they never took the syrum. The immune's skin color runs the whole spectrum of humanity from ebony to alibaster.

Mental Description- When living in the safety and security of their communities Immune live carefree lives of relative comfort of home life. Those immune who venture out into the world and become lost in the slums or entangled in a net of slavery have totally a different mentality. They are downtrodden, defeated, and nervous all the time. Though this probably stems from random beatings, constant abuse, and the ever present chance of a long drawn out death at the hands of an angry mob for no particular reason.

Names- The immune really like their names. As such they reuse family names over and over again. Notable names include; Maximilion Von Wanton XVII, Sadie Elidah Constance XIV, and Kurt William Sinclare LIX.

Home- In the best of worlds the immune live in isolation on their compounds with fellow immune. These sprawling communities house dozens of families and can have populations up to hundreds. These communes have measly defenses and mostly rely on concealment or flat out bribes to buy off attackers. Outside their communes immune make neighborhoods themselves in the slums and huddle together with the other dredges of society for everyone’s common safety. In the worst situation the immune find themselves enslaved to brutal masters. The chains that bind them may be finical in nature, good old fashoned brutality, or literal chains.

Family Description- The immune live in large communities that are very tight knit and closed off from the other strains. These communities have to stick together to protect itself from outside aggressors. These communities are formed by around a dozen families. These families can trace their history to at least the time around the plague. The households house the whole family from the great grand children to the great grand parents. Marriages are typically arranged by the elder relatives to prevent inbreeding of the children. When outside of their compounds they are usually living as beggars and stick together in slum communities, or worse surviving as some slave to a malicious owner.

Religion- The old religions from before the plague seems to be preferredmby the immune. The exception to this occurs with the Immune found outside of their compounds. Those away from their families, found in slavery, can be found practicing any religion available. Though the religion seems to depend heavily on the religion that their masters practice.

Reasons for Adventuring- Most immune adventure to try and improve their lot in life. Either to escape their vile master, break free of the slums, or to break away from the depressingly normal life. As such they will jump with any group that’ll bust them out of their lot. As such they often find themselves in worse situations than they were trapped in before. But the option to improve their lot is worth any price they can pay.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Even in their communities the immune are poorly equipped.  They don’t have much money to work with to start and the other strains don’t want to give anything to the immune. Well anything but violence. As such most immune have to deal with very shoddy items or craft them by hand. In their communes they manage fairly. Outside the
communes they have to live with rags for protection and poorly made shanks as weapons.

Usual Occupation- Inside the communes the immune are allowed the opertunity to practice any trade they wish. The compounds do their best to remain self supporting. Outside the compounds most immune’s job is vagrant, beggar, or slave. The options are pretty limited for the immune outside their compounds.

Strain History- The world experienced a plague the likes of which none had ever seen. It killed without rhyme or reason and when you became infected, you might as well get your afairs in order. A lucky rare few were naturally immune to the disease. These few were at first poked, prodded, inspected, and interrogated to discover the source of their protection. No reason for their immunity was ever found. After the syrum was discovered everyone abandoned the immune’s testing. While everyone was mutating and changing into terrible parrodies of humanity, the Immune were normal as ever. At first the Immune kept airs of superiority, but as their numbers shrank things changed. The other strains began to see the immune as representations of all that they had lost. Shame turned to anger. The immune slowly became effegies for all that the world had lost. So the long standing tradition of abuse began.

Mutations- None.

*Leathernecks*
Transcript of a sermon as spoken by Officiator Mickey Leonard
Officiator Leonard- Scans the crowd. Takes in everyone amid a great ruckus of clapping and cheering. After he has had enough he begins. “Greetings my family. I do appreciate you all comming together on such a hot day.”
Crowd- Various cheers and agreements to the temperature.
Officiator Leonard- Wipes the sweat from his brow with a bright red rag, “Now i won’t waste you're time with long introductions. All of you know me, and i most definitely know all you.”
Crowd- Responds with cheers, laughter, and agreement.
Officiator Leonard- “You see i have a great subject i must speak of to you. The subject is the rampant evil lose in the world. The evil as all of you should know is the written word.” Scans over the
crowd once more.
Crowd- “Boo! No!”
Officiator Leonard- Takes in the crowd’s jeers. Calms crowd down enough to speak again with a wave of his hands. “The written word nearly killed us all. You see, before the great Plague, all mankind became buried deeper and deeper under a mountain of words. It got to the point where people didn’t even want to talk to each other without it being written out, certified, and filed away with the proper authorities.”
Crowd- “That's right!”
Officiator Leonard- “The great Plague was the wake-up call that we needed to free ourselves from the oppressive weight of those written words.” Pauses while he scans the crowd. “The Syrum advanced us past the need for that tedious written word.”
Crowd- “Tell us more!”
Officiator Leonard- “We have advanced to where a man’s word IS his bond!” Pauses once more to look over crowd.
Crowd- Seizes the brief pause and start chanting “Yes” and “Tell it”.
Officiator Leonard- After a bit calms crowd down once more with a wave of his hands. “Now you may be wondering what all this has to do with you, and i have to tell you I'm getting to that.”
Crowd- A few isolated whoops and hollers.
Officiator- Points directly into the crowd. Continues, “You see, YOU must do YOUR part. The first thing you can do is don’t work in the slightest or buy nothing from someone who writes those damnable words. Especially if they try to get you to write even a single little word. Don’t give
them nothing. Not a single thing at all.”
Crowd- More cheering and praises.
Officiator- “You want more? I said, do you want MORE? Then you can seek out the written word and destroy it with purifying fire!” Pauses and scans the crowd. Looking for something in particular it seems. “The more words burned the less- Hey! You!” He’s pointing. He’s pointing at me. “Are you writing this?! EVERYONE GET HIM!” 
Haistily scribbled on the bottom of the page- GET
THIS
TO
SOMEONE

Physical Description- Tall doesn’t even begin to describe a leatherneck. Big and tall may scratch the surface. Leathernecks are very large indeed. Think of the biggest person you know. Then make them a full head taller than you and add an extra hundred pounds to them. That’s about how big leathernecks are. On top of this large frame is a georgous hide covered with a fine and lovely feeling hair. On top of all this are a pair of large horns for more than just decoration.

Mental Description- The sight of all the wanton murder combined with the heartless treatment of their families makes for less than stable people. Not having stability in their younger days the leathernecks constantly seek any form of stability that they can discover. A universal constant is that the leathernecks always seem to latch on to oddball cults and religions. These cults serve as an extended family that the leathernecks always desperatly desired, but were always denied.

Names- Being so heavily influenced by the philosophers, cult leaders, and religious figures they like to take their names, or what they can remember of their names. As such the names are a bit distorted. Some favored leatherneck names are; Frankie Bacon, T. Don Hibbard, and Thomas Aquarius.

Home- Cults can get to be pretty large. With large cults, you need a large place to keep them.  So leathernecks and their cults need large buildings to live in. Leathernecks in the market for realestate search for warehouses, aircraft hangers, and any other large sized buildings. They equip these buildings with enough sleeping space for the whole of their cults. When it comes to the leader they get their own seperate living space to collect their thoughts, of course.

Family Description- Leathernecks don’t have families in the strict sense of the word. Thanks to growing up on the stockyards and being traded around like objects. Whenever a leatherneck does escape the stockyards, they imeadiately look for guidance. They very often find oddball religions or cults. The leatherneck quickly adopts the cult members as their own family. As the leatherneck rises in the cult hierarchy they begin insisting on the cult members do the same. As a result the leatherneck forms a family of their own.

Religion- The stranger the cult or philosophy, the more the leathernecks love it. They are strangely drawn to them like moths to the flame. 

Reasons for Adventuring- Leathernecks that leave the safety of their flock only do so for one of two reasons. The first reason is to escape their masters and enslavement. With any luck they only need to do this once in their lives, but the risk of return always exists because of the price farmers put on their heads for a safe return. They are livestock after all. The other reason that a leatherneck would escape slavery would be to spread The Word. What The Word is exactly is up to debate and varies largely from leatherneck to leatherneck. But it generally represents the faith of their religion.

Usual Occupation- It’s no surprise that the leathernecks use their cult leadership status as their occupation. The cult members are expected to bring all their earthly materials to the cult.  These posesions are of course the property of the cult and all money goes straight to the all cult members. Leathernecks would never keep the money for themselves... Eventually with enough members and land the leathernecks can create a self sustaining commune with the money that the cult members “donate” to the cause. That is if the leatherneck doesn’t get greedy with the money.

Preferred Arms and Armor- When you have dozens of people willing to do anything you tell them, why would you ever want to use a brutish weapon? The leathernecks would much rather have their cult members do the dirty deeds for them. Though in desperate times, when the flock is away or non existant, a leatherneck will do what is necessary. They prefer to do the work with their bare hands and faith that providence will guide them true.

Strain History- American men love meat. They would eat it for every single meal if they were allowed. Their favorite meat of all was the beloved cow. These men were once the largest and strongest men around. When it came time to die of the plague or take the syrum, they happily took the syrum right after a nice steak dinner. The next morning the beefiest of men awoke to discover that they were in fact now beef. They had become the one meat they loved most. So they eventually tried to settle back into their lives. As governments collapsed others tried unsuccessfully to replace the previous government. The replacements weren’t squeemish about using violence to get what they wanted. One of the first victims were livestock. Pretty soon the cows, pigs, and chickens became short in supply. About that time everyone discovered that the boars and leathernecks were a pretty good alternative. Pretty soon the farmers stopped raising regular livestock and began raising leathernecks and boars instead. Leathernecks were preferred because they were much larger than the boars. Farmers started breeding the leathernecks for meat and not for their brains. Over time the leathernecks became as dim as the cows they so closely resembled. Though every once and a rare while a leatherneck is born with enough intelligence to realize how terrible their situation is. It fractures their mind, but one thing remains untouched, the urge to be free.

Mutations- 
(7) Hoofed feet 
(12) horns 
(40) leathery hide 
(53) gigantic 
(60) extra stomachs

*Randoms*
Well i guess this will have to serve as a sort of last testimate. I’m not quite sure how much longer i’m going to last in this town. I really wish it wasn’t written on the back of cocktail napkins. But you work with what you have, i suppose. That is the one thing i have always been quite good at doing. Working with what i have.
It all began began about a week ago. I hooked up with a group of mercs. Called themselves, “The Rough Boys”. I’ve got to stop running with groups that have the word, “The” in their title.  It always means bad news. I thought We got hired by a guy by the name of Jackobee, Janius, or something along those lines. I don’t know, i didn’t haggle the contract, which was a mistake. I would have been able to smell the lies a mile away. Stupid noobs...
At any rate, the job was a standard town sweep to rub out a local warlord. Doing good to remove a real jerk. Things went well at first (as they always seem) but eventually news of our little group spread. It still startles me to see just how fast bad news can spread through a group of well armed people.
That’s when it all started falling apart. Someone must have had a long arm because Tony got tagged in the face (i kept on telling him to take cover). Then the warlord’s force made it’s self known. They started working us with crossbows. After they started shooting, i got grazed on my leg and they tried to flush us out of our cover with some kind of crude explosive that Veteren sat on. So i thought it would be good to dig in. Zeek, Philips, Moonbeam, Mother, and Staple joined me behind a dumpster in an alleyway. It reeked of week old fish, but it kept us alive, and that’s what counts in the end.
Things were looking grim, Philips was bleeding from a dozen holes, Mother was freaking out, and Moonbeam couldn’t believe what was going on. Rookies… On top of this, the warlord’s forces, which turned out to actually be the town’s defence force, were closing in. That was a pleasant surprise for everyone. Nothing like realizing that you aren’t the do-gooder, you’re actually the big bad villian. On top of that, my baby Sally was almost out of shells to blast those dumb rednecks with.
So i did what usually works. Rally everyone, wait until the defence force closed in, then blast a hole in the line with a lucky grenade lob, and run for it. I dragged Philips with Moonbeam following, but the rest stayed pinned down. They were too shaken to do much of anything. So i had to leave them. The locals didn’t seem too keen on our method of introducing ourselves. But the others thought they would be alright if they surrendered. Those leaving hobbled down a few alley ways, the sounds of fighting got further and further away. After what seemed to be a lifetime, our jolly group busted into a great little watering hole, The Broken Spoke.
What a hole it was. But who can complain when drinks were on the house for everybody?  Though it eased my spirit out, it carried Philips to the grave. Moonbeam seems to be getting a grip at long last. The rest of the group is probably either dead or captured.
Damn it why do i always have to do all the work? Looks like i’ll have to go and save the day. Yet another town i’ll be vilafied in.
If i don’t make it, know that we didn’t know what we were doing. At least i didn’t know.
-Hannibal.

Physical Description- The random strain is an interesting strain that’s united by their unique appearance. The randoms all fall into the “other” category of stable genetic lines. They don’t belong to any of the other strains. They could have some of the other strains characteristics, but
not enough to fully fit in. Usually the randoms have characteristics that are unique and not possessed by the other strains. The physical traits of each individual random varies from person to person. They could look nearly untouched just like the immune, or they could have a leatherneck’s good looks, or even a red herring's fisheyness. Point is the randoms are all classified by the inability to be classified into any other strain.

Mental Description- The randoms can go in any particular direction of mental stability.  Some randoms are blessed with mental clarity, vision, and unique insights to the world. Other randoms are not so lucky. They suffer delusion, obsession, and any other madness available.  Thankfully the bulk of randoms have enough mental stability to keep themselves presentable to the world.

Names- The randoms names are nearly as random as the strain’s mutations. Random objects, places, family names, or any other names that the other strains would use are suitable for randoms. A random sampling of random’s names would be; Herb Liencher, Lord Gothington, Lincolnton, Dewy Decimal.

Home- The randoms live wherever they feel comfortable, from crumbling pre-plague housing, post plague shanties made from the bones of the pre-plague world.

Family Description- To go with the rest of the random’s randomness, their family structures are pretty specific to the family itself. They have no set or even preferred set up of family. They’ll range from huge extended families that span generations to a single “lone wolf ” who roams alone.

Religion- The randoms can be found knelling before any diety that is worshiped around. The range of idols that the randoms include everything from forbidden ancient evils to fururistic false idols.

Reasons for Adventuring- Randoms adventure for any reason thought of, cast their lot in a with rough and tumble crews, to adventure for the sake of adventuring, to seeing the world, or for the simple reason of making cold hard cash.

Preferred Arms and Armor- This comes down to the personal preference of the random and availability.  The strain does not lean to any particular direction when it comes down to gear.

Usual Occupation- The occupation of randoms really comes down to what jobs are available for them. They can be found performing any job available.

Strain History- The random stable genetic strain demonstrate the most dreadful effect of the syrum, it can’t be predicted. Some people were turned into their dinners. Others were turned into their injuries. There are two strains who’s traits are just the roll of the dice. The randoms and the wretched. Thankfully the randoms are much more stable than the wretched. As it is the randoms demonstrate a particular fact about the newly “enhanced” human genome. The genes are passed from mother to child. In the case of two different strains mating the mother’s strain dominates the fathers and the child will be the mother’s genetic strain.  The randoms are unique in the fact that the child can and often will have traits that neither the mother nor the father have.

Mutations- Randoms have 1d10 mutations at creation that are rolled for randomly, of course.

*Red Herrings*
Captain’s log of the Zepir
27.000.13.26 Took on 3 passengers for what will be the ship’s 27th voyage. The 3 passengers are Jonny Smith, Madame Moovilis Bovine, and Proteus Tronics. I have my reservations about taking a stinking, immune onboard, especially with their curse and all. But the coin was good and who knows, maybe we’ll be the first ship to survive a long trip with an immune onboard.  They hired us to steam up the coast to try to find some wrecked ship. Their gear took bloody forever to load. 13 and a half hours loading and refueling to be exact. After final preparations are completed we’ll be away.

27.004.44.54 It’s been nearly 5 days of steaming up the coast. We’ve not had much adventure, which is nice for a change of pace for us. One Eyed Vic pulled a great gag on our guests earlier today. He shut down our engines and started shouting over and over “Fire in the engine room! Abandon ship! Abandon ship!” Before you could blink the whole group of pansies jumped right over the rail into the sea. It was a riot. I almost peed myself laughing so hard at them. I’m so glad i brought that wretch of a first mate onboard all those years ago. Our passengers eventually climbed back onboard and after they dried off they finished unpacking their gear all over the ship. Now we can’t step anywhere without tripping over it. Odd thing was even though their gear was old, beaten up, and quite well worn, it was really fancy and it looked to be working.  Otherwise nothing to report.

27.011.01.26 We’ve finally stumbled on what the passengers were searching for. It’s a ship that’s beached on a sand bar about three miles off shore. The wreck is about 362 miles north of Port Birch-wood. The wreckage seems to be of a post-plague warship. Pretty nasty looking thing if you ask me. So my crew and i set anchor about 150 yards off the wreck. Proteus begged me for the use of our dingy, and being the fool I am, I couldn’t say no to those eyes.

27.018.59.59 Well it’s the last few minutes of our 7th day at this wreck. I had Proteus dine with me in my private quarters this evening. I don’t care what the rest of the crew says, especially Thirty-aught. He’s had his own fugly dates himself. Anyway Proteus is convinced that the wrecked ship, the Vanguard, has some astounding gear hidden in it. All the equipment he brought he’s using to try and get the Vanguard seaworthy again. Truth is i’d be happy to just get lost in his stunning eyes.

27.024.13.26 We’ve been camped out here for nearly 14 days. Proteus says he and his people can get their gear stowed in a day or two. For our sake and theirs, i hope they can. We’re running low on food and fresh water. I don’t care if they just need a few more days to get the Vanguard seaworthy, we are running out of supplies.

27.024.13.26 Fucking hell. I take five minutes away from the helm to see Proteus and we run aground. We raised anchor and were searching for supplies.  Thankfully it’s low tide, so with a lot of hard work and luck we’ll get back in the sea soon. We just need to patch the hole below the water line. I just hope that the approaching storm holds out until we can get back out to sea to weather it out.

30.???.??.?? Well it’s been something like three days of the worst storm i’ve ever seen. We couldn’t fix the boat before the tide came back. The rest of the crew and passengers all voted to weather the storm on land instead of the boat. Thankfully we were not on the ship, the storm destroyed it and threw the pieces to the four corners of the world. So this is my final entry in the captain’s log. We’re going to try to follow the shore south and find any town we can. This is Captain Meri Time, of the ship, The Zepir signing off for the last time.

Physical Description- There is something fishy about the red herring. Their skin isn’t quite right, their eyes are funny looking, their hands and feet are weird, and they’re always wheezing for some reason or another. Their skin isn’t quite right because instead of skin, it’s actually scales. Small, tight fitting, and hard, scales that always seem to glisten in the sunlight. These scales are hard enough to act as protection from incoming blows. Their eyes are funny looking because firstly red herrings have no eye lids. Secondly they eyes are huge. Freakishly huge. They can just about see behind themselves with those peepers. The hands and feet of red herring is weird because between their fingers and toes there is a web of skin, or scale rather.  Finally the red herrings wheeze thanks to both a set of lungs and a set of gills fighting to provide the body with air to breath.

Mental Description- Red herrings have an interesting duality to their personalities. When they are out on the water, or even deep in the water, they are very calm and at peace with themselves. They can still be upset, bothered, or annoyed, just not to any significant degree.  They feel empowered and in control of the world around them. Yet when they set out on the land, the red herring instantly become a paranoid, superstitious group. Even with their all seeing eyes, they still constantly scan the landscape for some unseen threat. They believe in odd coincidences as omens, and obey eccentric superstitions such as never starting a landfall on a day that starts with the letter, “T”. Once you get them back to the waters that they so love, they quickly ease back into themselves and relax.

Names- With their moods so relaxed and at ease in the waters of the world, red herring naturally take their names from anything that has to do with the seas. Mostly to do with sailor jargon, but bodies of water also serve as their names, such as; Long I. Tude, Star Port, Euphrates, or Rappohannock.

Home- No land loving home for these wanderers. Every red herring calls some boat their home, they may not own the boat, but they’ll call it home none the less. These boats can be single simple houseboats, or they can be flotilla of miss-matched ships roaming the seas. Red herrings also have home ports. They are places that they stop most often at to resupply their ships before going back out to sea. These ports can be cities along coasts, caches on isolated islands, or even underwater cities hidden beneath the seas.

Family Descriptions- With red herring spending so much time out on the turbulent, unpredictable waters of the world, they naturally have to rely heavily on their crew mates to survive the dangers. As such the red herrings eventually fall out of touch with their biological families and replace them with their fellow crew mates. They find parents in those who rank above them on the ship, children in the ranks below them, and lovers anywhere they can.

Reason for Adventuring- Red herrings suffer a condition. They all are afflicted with a wanderlust that is incurable. Every single one has a need for adventure in their blood. It’s just the way that they are. And if they’re going do adventure anyway, the red herrings figure that they might as well earn their keep while fulfilling their need for excitement in their lives.

Religion- The red herrings can’t stand the idea of being tied to anything in particular.  Especially religion. It’s not that they don’t believe in higher powers, or dieties, they just don’t want to get tied up in the pomp and circumstance of it all. The closest thing to a religious practice is the rituals they perform when they are on land, but those are more superstitions and old wives tales that they employ to “protect” themselves.

Preferred Arms and Armor- To make their time out at sea longer with less need to stop port side and repair their items, Red Herring opt for simpler weapons and armor. Simple metal plates crudely pounded and cut into the vauge proper shape held on with string. Or even just plain ol’
clothes. For weapons they like crude blunderbusses, bows, and sturdy clubs to keep things simple and reliable in the water.

Usual Occupations- This’ll come as a surprise, but red herrings find occupation as pirates and seamen. They have advantages on the water, a great love for the water, a house on the water, and a fear of the land. With the other strains not as well adjusted to the water, the red herring
oblige the other strains and help them on the seas, oceans, and lakes. That or they just take advantage of their advantages and turn to a life of piracy and steal all that they could ever need or want.

Strain History- For as long as man lived, those closest to the seas turned to them for sustinence.  Fish and various aquatic creatures made the bulk of their diet. They eventually turned to the seas to earn their money and such. Many of these coastal people became red herrings after taking the syrum and learning of it’s dastardly side effects. When the governments began to shake and crumble, the red herrings took to the water to avoid the problems. Alas the anarchy on the land quickly followed out to sea with the classic tradition of piracy. When things began to settle, the red herring made more and more frequent stops back to land to reestablish contact with the rest of the world.

Mutations- 
(8) Webbed hands and feet 
(18) gills 
(19) fish eyes 
(41) scales,
(58) air bladder

*Secnits*
Lab Report 1-216-198-3
Submitted by Eigh Ix.

Object 37251- Device is approx. 6” x 1.5” x 2”. Object is composed of a hard plastic outer shell with delicate silicone circuit boards, small motors, and electronic components inside.  Device is portable audio replaying device (see Walkman). Disassembled and inspected components. Circuitry is inoperative due to damage. Motor units are functional and were removed and submitted to main storage. Remaining components disposed of.
Personal Comments- Next time don’t play hackie sack with the loot guys. I mean if you are that desperate to be entertained, there’s always plenty of gear to log, catalogue, repair, and maintain down here.

Object 37252- Device is approx. 52” x 2.25” x 6”. Object is mostly composed of steel with some plastic rubber on the extremities of the “handles.” Long 2” steel pipe with vice grip pliers 1/2 the distance from the capped side. One side of pipe is capped with a modified steel pipe cap. Pipe cap has heavy spring attached with cut nail attached to spring. Inside pipe, secured by the cap was a 12 gauge shotgun shell (live, heavily reloaded). Shell was submitted to the armory.  Remaining components submitted to shop’s supply.
Personal Comments- It’s a stinking pipe rifle! Stupid grunts. I played with better toys as a baby. GET OVER IT!!!

Object 37253- Object is approx. 3” x 2” x 1”. Object is composed of burlap fabric with hair on the top and charcoal markings on the surface. Small hand stitched humanoid doll. Hair looks to be real? Innards are unconfirmed composition. Details (face, fingers, etc) painted with what appears to be charcoal.
Personal Comments- Cute doll, if not a little creepy. Considered giving doll to one of the compound’s children, but thought better of it and disposed of it. Why is it everything those wretched make is inherently creepy?

Object 37254- Object is approx. 67” x 35” x 28”. Object is composed of many metals. Exact composition is unknown as of yet pending further investigation. Large, heavily tarnished box-like shape. Appears to be a heavily cannibalized car engine. It would look to have been converted into a generator of sorts. Initial inspection shows that the engine block is fused together, rendering it useless. There may be salvageable material.
Personal Comments- It’s junk. The block is one fused lump of steel, all the gaskets are cracked or broken, wiring is half melted, and it’s got a dozen bullet holes and a trophy arrow lodged in it. Nice work boys. Real nice.

Object 37255- Object is approx. 13” x 3” x 3”. Object is composed of clear, high quality, tempered glass. Tall glass tube with flat base. Tube has markings in equal spacing up the sides and numbers correspond with the lines. Glass appears to be without cracks, flaws, or imperfections. Retained for lab use.
Personal Comments- A real tool! I can’t believe these simpletons brought back an unbroken graduated cylinder. I can’t wait to use it!

Physical Description- Secnit look like oversized bugs. They have hardened and pearlescant shells instead of normal skin. The shell has the look of a pearl, in that the it has a primary color as the majority of the color, with wisps of secondary colors snaking through out the shell. This shell is also hard enough to protect the secnit from a fair deal of damage. As if the shell wasn’t enough, they have extra limbs attached at the back of their rib cage. The extra limbs numbers vary from 1 to 10 and may be less than an even number due to limb loss. The extra limbs are very similar to the secnit normal arms, except instead of hands the limb has a single long “finger” that is about the size of a hand with two small “fingers” coming off the side. This allows very rudementary use of the limb, but no fine motor skills. To go with all these extra limbs, the secnit also have extra eyes arrayed out on the top and front of the character’s head. The number of eyes range also from 1 to 10 thanks to all those games that the secnit’s parents said, “Will put your eye out!”. The extra eyes are fully functioning with the eye color being the same for all the eyes. The final physical characteristic of secnit isn’t much of an outward appearance,
but a personality quark all share. Secnit are fidgety and have a lot of trouble staying still, even while they sleep. They try their best, but if they’re not busy doing some kind of work or activity they start fidgeting and getting themselves in trouble.

Mental Description- As previously mentioned, the secnits are all very fidgety. If they’re not doing something a this very exact second, then they become bored. When they’re bored, they can get themselves into a lot of trouble by coming up with and performing fiddling with things that they really shouldn’t fiddle with. Secnits also become grumpy when not actively engaged in some activity that keeps them occupied. While occupied they are perfectly friendly and kind.  

Names- Secnits live in large families. These families typically end up with very large numbers of children, parents, grand parents, cousins, aunts, uncles, best friends, and anyone else that wishes to, all living together. As such secnit parents ran out of ideas for children’s names. Thus began the  practice of naming their children after some sort of numbering system to keep track of how many there really were. Most secnit have names that are numbers, military ranks, or even serial numbers. A good example of those are, X13-14J and Iye Ecks.

Home- To accomidate such large families and family groups, the secnits all get together in huge buildings that they take over as a community.  Warehouses, malls, and factories make good locations for secnits hives. These hives will have some sort of personally rigged dividers to seperate the families from one another and allow a little privacy for the inhabitatants.

Family Description- Secnits have very large families. It’s not that they are particularly fertile or prolific about breeding, they just end up with large immediate families. That combined with their love to keep their extended families together as on cohesive unit, lead to the secnits forming “hives” to live together in. The hives are a misnomer in that there is no central hive queen or sinister hive intelligence. The secnits are all indepentent people very capable of making their own decisions. As such the secnits all grow up with very strong ties to their hive and are safe in there is always a friendly place for them to run if things go poorly.

Reasons for Adventeruring- The huge hives require lots of food, water, building materials, and a ton of odds and ends to entertain everyone. These things are not free. So to pay for and aquire these things secnits send lucky members of their hive get to go out into the world and provide for their family. Selection of the lucky ones is volunteers first and that failing, the hive will have a randomized selection process.

Religion- Secnits aren’t a particularly religious strain. They are typically more concerned about providing enough for their families, surviving the dangers of the world, and maybe even finding a little time to entertain themselves. The process of dissassembling, repairing, and recreating mechanical devices soothes their scattered brains and gives them something to focus on. 

Preferred Arms and Armor- Most often finding themselves in a machine shop, secnits will draw their weapons and armor from the tools they use daily. When lacking, or perhaps looking to upgrade, they will sneak time in the sophisticated shops and produce upgrades themselves.  With their own six hands. While they may not always produce “conventional” arms and armor, secnits devices are prized by those who understand the skill and prowess that the secnits possess.

Usual Occupation- With their extra limbs and inability to remain still, secnits find themselves very comfortable and happy in positions of laborers and mechanics. Analyzing the way that an unknown object fits together, crafting a complex device from scratch, assembling hundreds of delicate and detailed things all works wonders to keep a secnit’s wandering mind occupied.

Strain History- Rumors are a funny thing. They can make people do very foolish things under mistaken ideas and theories. Such is the source of the secnit. As the plague ravashed the world, there was a brief rumor, before the Syrum was released, that consuming specific insects would provide immunity to the plague. Desperation ensued and many people devoured huge numbers of creepy crawlers. Alas it didn’t work. Unhindered by this, people continued to eat those bugs right until they recieved their warping injection of the Syrum. Thus was born the secnits.

Mutations- 
(10) Extra limbs 
(25) exoskeleton 
(65) adhesion 
(67) extra eyes 
(91) wiry

*Wretched*
Mender's Health Clinic weekly log 38

Patient's Name- Lantana Camara
Gender- Female
Age- 273
Stable Genetic Strain- Dryad
Symptoms- Bodily aches and pains, forgetfulness.
Diagnosis- Very advanced age and the troubles that come with it.
Treatment- Performed an exam, trimmed her twigs and leaves, listened to a few stories about "the good ol' days".  It was nice to make sure Ms. Lantana was doing alright, its getting harder and harder to get her to come into the office.

Patient's Name- "Jane, John, and Jack Doe"
Gender- Both. 
Age- Early 20's.
Stable Genetic Strain- Red herring, brain, and a secnit were dragged in by an immune.
Symptoms- Significant blunt trauma, lacerations, and piercing injuries.
Diagnosis- Accute, sudden onset lead poisoning.  
Treatment- They were clearly adventurers who had a job go pretty wrong.  The herring was DOA and there wasn't anything i could do.  The brain, "Jane", was a bit roughed up, but i got her patched up without trouble.  "John" the secnit was touch and go for hours, but i managed to stabalize him.  I sent them with care instructions and some medical supplies since they insisted on moving as quickly as possible.  They're probably running from whoever caused those injuries.
 
Patient's Name- Ossy Scope
Gender- Male
Age- 26
Stable Genetic Strain- 'Bot
Symptoms- High fever, chills, body aches, reddish rash on body.
Diagnosis- A red, dry, rash seems to be giving Mr. Ossy flu-like symptoms.  Almost looks like rust.
Treatment- Tried to tactfully suggest buffing the spot out.  Felt a bit bad about the joke and gave him some antibiotics to help with whatever is causing the fever.

Patient's Name- Various
Gender- Mixed
Age- Range between 4 and 27
Stable Genetic Strain- Nearly an even split between boars and leathernecks.
Symptoms- A wide array of cuts, scrapes, bumps, and bruises.  A few substantial lacerations and one injury that looked suspiciously like a gunshot.
Diagnosis- The group suffered injuries a few days ago and were too afraid to seek assistance.  So they sent the least roughed up person to try stealing medical supplies from me.  Poor kid turned from pink to gray then white when he saw me.
Treatment- Went out to where the group was hidding and patched them up as best as i could in the dark.  Gave them some supplies to change dressings and asked them to just knock next time.  I now know why those adventurers got roughed up a few days ago.

Physical Description- The wretched are a very unlucky strain. That’s even compaired to the other strains. If you look hard enough one can find a rhyme or reason for each of the other strains. The wretched aren’t so lucky. When the first wretched took the syrum, something just didn’t quite feel right. Before they knew it they had flailed and contorted in such pain to such an extent that the wretched had snapped their own bones like twigs. The worst part is these injuries should have killed them, yet they had a newfound regenerative abilities. Those two factors combined to give the wretched the unmistakable visage of twisted and broken husks. No two wretched look exactly the same, yet they are all very easily identifiable because of their warped limbs and constant grimace.

Mental Description- Given all of the pain that a wretched has to deal with on a day to day basis, they aren’t too friendly. Imagine, if you will, the worst body aches you’ve ever had. Like the feeling of going 12 rounds with a prize fighter.  Now imagine this kind of pain being a good day for you. That is a sample of a wretched’s life.  The wretched all very quickly become very mean and brooding characters that have little room for any other annoyances in their lives. They are full of piss and vinegar and very little, if any, kindness is very well hidden from the world.

Names- The common array of bone distortion among the wretched also extends to their mouthes. Jaws huge and gaping, pallets cleft six different ways, oversized and snaggled teeth are some of the very common problems that wretched face. Thanks to these troubles the wretched’s names are long strings of nearly impernouncable letters, such as Irglabegonan, Grothaur, Mingl.

Home- With their tempermet, it’s no wonder that wretched find it difficult to live in cities. They either find their neighbors nigh unbearable or their neighbors find them nigh unbearable.  As such most wretched just cut out the painful discovery of this and retreat to isolated hide-aways.  They like the solitude and quiet that a place away from the world can provide. These holes can be elaborate places with many layers of traps and defenses to ward off unwelcomed visitors. These traps are of the nonlethal sort with exception being near what the wretched considers their most important areas like their own personal living space.
Family Description- None will deny that the Wretched are nasty folks, not even the wretched themselves. So when their family structure is described it shouldn’t be a surprise that the family structure is nearly nonexistent. 

Religion- If the wretched do decide to worship any religion, and heaven knows you can’t force a wretched to do anything they don’t want to, it is almost universally a form of religion seeped in evil and counter culture.  That is not to say that there aren’t atheistic wretched. They mostly prefer to worship dieties that are as evil as they think themselves.

Reasons for Adventuring- With all the pain in their lives the wretched look for activities sufficient to distract them.  Some seek relics from bygone eras, others the thrill of combat, still others seek to help heal those around them, and theres a small group that desirres to inflict pain on those that they can.  As such some are obsessive explorers, peerless warriors, field medics, or monsters pointed in the direction of foes.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Given their unique body shapes, wretched require either customized armor or heavily modified at least.  The materials and designs vary as heavily as the wretched do.  Weapons don't need to be as specialized for the wretched, but that's their preference when possible.

Usual Occupation- The wretched typically persue ecentric hobbies obsessively.  Figuring that they should also make money at it also, wretched usually find occupation within their occupation's activities.  The particulars vary wildly between wretched.

Strain History- The syrum caused terrific things to happen to those who took it. It healed wounds, cured diseases, and saved lives. It also turned out to be cursed. It sundered human’s genetic code with little respect to what was once “normal”. The strain that understands the horrible effects of the syrum best would be the wretched. From the second the syrum entered their veins, it was as though ice water flew screaming through their bodies. Invariably the screaming would start shortly after all the syrum was injected. Then shortly afterward the wild flailing would set in. The wretched would roll around on the ground with such furvor that their bones would snap and crack. The torment of agonizing pain wasn’t enough for the unlucky wretched. As they danced a jig of misery their bones would heal at an astonishing rate.  While it may seem like a blessing, these broken bones didn’t have the time to be set properly, as such arms were bent at un-natural angles fingers extended to horrid lengths, shattered teeth splintered into new individual fangs. Those who’s strength of will survived the first 24 hours were rewarded with a lifetime of aching pain and twisted bodies. Thus began the legacy of great anger and grumpyness that all wretched actively participate in.

Mutations- 
(5) Cancerous 
(6) elongated limbs 
(14) solid ribcage 
(24) abnormally shaped bones 
(90) double jointed 

Just to state it again, the descriptions above are generalizations or cliche's of the different strains.  They can vary in any of the aspect listed above.  Please feel free to alter or adjust them as it suits your game.
